Hi there, I'm Ed Leak and today we're going to discuss the four audiences you should always use in your Facebook ad campaigns. However, before I rattle through the audiences, let's cover off the most important part of any advertising campaign, measuring the results. Uh, if you can't measure your marketing, you're burning time and wasting money. That's a fact. I know it might seem like the boring bit, but in all honesty, if you haven't already, get your tracking sorted. Now, when that comes to Facebook, that means implementing your tracking pixel. The pixel is a sliver of code you'll find in your ad manager. Get that installed on every page of your website. So, setting up your Facebook conversion pixel and custom audiences are essential to tracking performance. It'll enable you to tap into Facebook's deep targeting capabilities and perhaps more importantly, leverage the automated optimized conversion-based bidding. So I guess you could say the pixel has three key purposes. One being to track your your goals, your conversions. The second to be optimizing your ads against and thirdly to build your retargeting audience. So Facebook's ad algorithms are very clever. They go deep and you really want to use them. So when you're optimizing for conversions in particular, having the pixel present on your website enables those algorithms to prioritize showing your ad to the right people that will convert. uh and that whole process uh improves over time and it's automated as I've said before. So that's the tracking bit done. Let's talk about the audiences. Always start with these four audiences. It can be tempting to craft your own audience at the start. You know, the demographic and behavioral targeting is quite compelling and also exciting and interesting to to dive into. But for new advertisers in particular, uh it can be often quite difficult to beat the system. So, let's use the tools at our disposal here and start with the following four audiences. So, number one is the obvious choice, your current page fans. It's the obvious starting point. You've earned them, so why not push your stuff to them? Obviously, if you've got a smaller audience at this stage, then ad reach will be limited, but engagement rates should be higher. Secondly, is your current customers 1% lookalike audience? So lookalike audiences are a good way to widen the net on an otherwise small but relevant audience. Facebook looks at around 1,500 data points to build a lookalike audience from your own. That deep data means the bigger your audience, you know, the bigger the starting audience that you upload, the more powerful look alikes become. Your current customers can be divided up into actual sales leads that you may have captured uh and email subscribers. So depending on your goal, you can split them out and upload them to Facebook and then you can create a 1% lookalike off the back of those. Thirdly is your website visitors. So this is known as remarketing or retargeting. Essentially showing ads to people who have already visited your website. Gives you an edge in in the attention race. You know, people's news feeds are busy. So if they're familiar with you, these people will be consciously or or subconsciously aware of you. Therefore, there will be bias towards your brand. Um, of course, be sure to exclude current customers or sales from this list. And you do that by setting up a custom audience of your existing sales, your existing customers. So, you can both target a list of people and also exclude a list of people. Fourth on the list is a 1% lookalike of your website visitors. So, this extends your your remarketing reach even further. So, not only do you target people that visited your website, but you can use Facebook's data to find similar people uh again based on those 1500 or so data points, behavior, demographic, and all sorts of information uh including browsing habits that Facebook has on people. The 1% lookalike of your website visitors is a great audience to create. It works really well. So, here's a quick rule of thumb for target audience sizes. Uh, you can expand audience sizes in the future, but for now, I'd always advocate starting between 300,000 and a million. The exception to this rule is your own page fans, of course, because you may not have 300,000 to a million people. Do pay very close attention to your frequency, uh, the number of times that your advert is shown on average to an individual. This is a metric that I discussed in my previous video entitled, "Cut the crap. Focus on these three Facebook ad metrics." So, have a look at that. it supports this this video nicely. So, when it comes to uh targeting as well, if you've only got 5,000 email addresses to upload, you might think, well, how do I get to to 300,000 as a minimum? Well, no problem. You build a lookalike audience from it. So, use the 1% rule to build an audience of 300 and something thousand. Same goes for when you only have 10,000 visitors to your website and your retargeting list. No problem. You build a 1% lookalike. They work really well. They grow your your audience, your existing uh user base literally in the click of a button. Really clever. A quick word on ad images. I know this video is not about campaign structure, it's about audience structure, but again, quick rule of thumb, always test at the very least three different images per ad set. So, Facebook audiences are very sensitive to imagery. An image will have the the biggest impact of all your ads performance to test them. We try and test a dozen images and see considerable differences in clicks and conversions even if the advert text and headline remains the same. So images have search and impact. And this is what the final setup looks like with uh one campaign. This might be a an engagement campaign, a conversionbased campaign, a lead gen, whatever it may be. So we have one campaign with four ad sets. Each set has its own audience as described in this video and its own ads within. keep things simple. You could use the same ads across all four um audiences there, each, you know, all four ad sets as it were because the campaign has one specific goal. So, the assumption being that the ads should all sort of fall into favor with each other. And that's it. The four audiences that you should always start with when you're doing your Facebook advertising. So, if you've got any questions, please leave a comment below. And now, go forth and advertise. And remember, always be measuring, always be testing. Until next time, thanks for listening.