[0s]
Smart bending is one of those things where after shopping ads, it's basically one of the best things that come out of Google Ads in the last few years. It does a much better job than we have ever done at managing bids, but at the same time, there are things that smart bidding simply doesn't know that's important to improve performance. That's why I use stuff like max bid limits in every single Google Ads account I manage. Sometimes is very aggressive, sometimes they're very lenient. Often I will change them throughout the year. often I'll change them throughout different seasonality, different times of of what we're just running in the
[30s]
account. But the one thing here is that I use them all the time. The trap is that almost everybody gets wrong is that in an attempt to save money, they set this bid limit way too aggressively and end up overlimiting the algorithm. And when you do that, you're not just cutting costs, you're quietly telling Smart Bidding to stop showing ads to some of your best and most profitable customers. basically the most expensive auctions that are out there. And that's how Google reps get ammunition to tell you not to touch a
[61s]
setting. Just let smart betting be. Wait for it to work. I'm going to show you exactly how to find the perfect balance to control your CPCs without strangling your campaign's growth. But let's start with a quick explainer of the two features. So, the maximum bid limit is the ceiling. It's it's basically a straightforward command. You're telling smart bidding under no circumstances should you bid higher than X for a single click. It acts like a hard bit ceiling preventing your cost per click from getting too high. It's a direct and predictable way to control your upper
[92s]
end costs and it doesn't have any algorithmic impact. You can see an immediate effect out of it and you don't have to wait. The minimum bid limit on the other hand is far more nuance and it carries some risk in my opinion. It attempts to establish what's called like a bid floor where you say don't bid lower than this but its behavior is different from the max bit limit. The scenario is if smart bidding is confident that it can hit your return on rows target then the minimum bid will force it to bid at least your specified amount even though it might not think it can overall hit it or anything like
[124s]
that. However, there is a scenario where if smart bidding thinks that overall are in this particular auction, it can't achieve your target rows while bidding your minimum bid amount, then it won't just bid lower. It won't just go down to that. It will pull you from the auction completely. And it's something that the documentation doesn't really describe. But it's something that we've seen that once we actually remove a minimum bit limit, we get more traffic, which is odd. But so that just means like the minimum bid limit you have to be very careful because that is the critical
[155s]
difference between you the two where a max bid simply shaves off the most expensive clicks then a minimum bid can prevent you from bidding at all. However, Google will tell you that the way the minimum bid works on the auction is the same way as the maximum bid works. So, Google will also tell you that for instance, if you have a bid limit of 76% of your spend is limited by your max bid, then 76% of the auctions that you could participate in, you're being kept out of, and that's not true, and I'll go into why later in this video. There's four ways I use max bid
[187s]
limits from least to most used. So, my least used is to start exploring. So, I will lower my ROS target below what we're hitting currently, but I'll set a rather low max bid limit. For instance, I'll set it to 1.5 or 2x the average CBC to try to avoid smart bidding increasing the bids too much and instead go out wider to explore for new auctions that we're currently not participating in. The third one is after a big sale. Now, seasonal bit adjustments is my go-to, but in some cases, max bin limits just work better, and I'll explain more later
[218s]
in this video. Then there is my second most used reason and it's from a hygiene perspective. Paying $20 for a keyword that normally is $2 in average cost per click is just wasteful. Here's the example of where it's just gone completely crazy. The average CPC in the account is 30 times less than what some of the CPCs are being tagged in. And that's just from an auction standpoint. It makes no sense that these CPCs are supposed to be this high. The way that I use max bending limits the most is when
[248s]
I encounter poor performance. Sometimes smart bidding doesn't react fast enough or we have week after week after week of not hitting our raw target instead of just sitting waiting for smart bidding to do something more. Then I just take the edge off. I just put a max bit limit. Maybe I put it at 1.5x the average uh CBC, maybe 1.2, maybe 1.8 times the average CBC. But I just take the edge of the high CPCs which helps us get back to hitting our targets without having to increase our ro sorry without having to narrow down smart bidding even
[279s]
further. There's one question I get a lot when I teach about max bid limits and then that is when do we use max bid limits versus seasonal bid adjustments because a lot of the examples I showed you before was about decreasing spend and that's where we can also use a negative seasonal bit adjustment. So I want to explain to you the difference between the two first and then we can go in when to use either or. The maximum bit limit effect is that you can't bid higher than X. That's what we're telling smart bidding. But it doesn't have any impact on any bids lower than the max
[309s]
bit limit. So if we take this example for instance, we can see here that we have bids at eight uh at $8, $5, $4, $3, $2. And then when we apply a maximum bid limit, then we're telling the system you are not allowed to bid higher than this. And that means that all our bids are going down to a maximum of 3.5, no matter where they were before. Now, if we jump over to a negative seasonal bid adjustment, it's an equal effect down on all auctions you participate in. So, if
[340s]
again we're going we have the exact same bits as before and we apply a minus 20% bid adjustment, then all of the auctions are decreasing. Now, max bid limits work very well when you want to get out of the most expensive auctions, but you don't want to lower the bids for auctions that you're borderline not participating in. So, if we go back to the seasonal bid adjustment uh example, let's say that the $2 bid that we currently have and say that dropping that by 20% will mean we drop out of the auction, we don't get any more data anymore. That can be a really bad
[371s]
negative where in that case it might be better just to apply a maximum bit limit. then we're basically not touching the already low CPCs that we're having. It doesn't have an effect on the bits, but we still shave off just the the most expensive parts of the bits. There's another part of it, and that is where it's the season seasonal bit adjustment. then you're basically also telling Google to ignore the performance in the period that you're running the seasonal bit adjustment, which is a little bit counterintuitive because if you do it because there's low performance and you think that this is the new normal, then
[402s]
you're going to have a spike the second your seasonal bit adjustment uh runs out and then it can it can be better and easier to manage with maximum bit limits. What does limited by bit limits actually mean? So, a major client of ours was told by Google that this error message means that you don't get into 76% of the auctions that you should have gotten into. And that's simply just not true. What it means is that in 76% of the auctions that you have been in that you have been in, smart bidding could have been bidding higher for it. It doesn't mean that you've dropped out of
[432s]
76% of the auctions you could have been in completely. It just means the smart bidding wanted to bid higher. So when it looks at your ROS target and sees hey based on this row target and the and the historical performance of this particular auction I want to bid at this level but they don't allow me to and I could have done I could have been bidding higher. So when Google says that that's how the maximum bit limit uh error message means it's not true. However, that can be definitely the the meaning for minimum bit limits because of what I explained to begin with. That
[463s]
is a very common thing that I see with minimum bit limits. Just be careful with minimum bit limits, but it doesn't work the same for maximum bit limits. I have so much data, so many times where we've gone in and reduced the bids uh and we have not dropped 76% or 50% or 25% in spend. Here's four common mistakes that I see made with bid limits. Number one is being too aggressive. Here is some data where we go in and we actually grouped a bunch of campaigns, bunch of countries to try to see what would happen if we apply what I call a hygiene
[493s]
bit limit. what do if we do a rather aggressive bit limit and what if we do a very aggressive bit limit and here's what the data re revealed so the initial results over the first couple months for the very aggressive 1x average CBC limit we lost approximately 15% of clicks which doesn't seem like that much because we saw a 15 to 30% better profit however and this is was the key thing conversions dropped by 33% what this mean is that we're getting locked out of
[524s]
the best auctions. The profit increase initially looked good, but the long-term impact when I looked at it after three months, we started entering a death spiral. We got less and less and less and less conversion volume. And it meant that the backend data looked worse. It meant that Google ads data also started to look look worse. And eventually when I looked at it after three months since the start, our profit overall profit volume also began declining. Even though our POS was extremely good, then the profit volume started declining. The last one there and and the the test
[556s]
showed it very very cleanly that setting an overly aggressive max bit can only be done temporarily because you're moving out of the peak season, you're getting away from Black Friday or you don't want to spend as much during Christmas season, etc., etc., etc. But if you don't get it away, you are followed by downward spiral. The second biggest mistake that I've seen is limiting too much and then freeing up too much. This is where it starts max bit limits become something you have to know how to work with because they don't work
[586s]
algorithmically which is something that I say fast but something you really really really need to pay attention to. It means that if you set a too aggressive max CBC and you're hitting above your ROS target then the second you increase your max bit limit smart bidding will jump very high. not not always all the way up to your new max bit limit but very close to it. So if we actually take this example here, we look at the last three months in an account that we're coaching. And we can see that the uh actual ROS very very routinely is
[616s]
much higher than what the average target ROS is. And we can see if we look at it on a weekly basis, you can see see it even more clearly that here we're above, then we fall below, now we're way above. And I promise you that when we go in and we actually make the change and we look at average CBC's, this is going to correlate directly. So here we have an average CBC uh max of around I would guess to five croner and then we drop it and you can see that the rows immediately increases. Then we start increasing the average the the max bit limit here and it's it it gets increased
[648s]
too much. It's too much and you can see now we then drop in terms of the actual rows below from where we were before. Now we can see hey this is actually too low. So, and then go in and apply a much to again we go we make up too big of a change to the max bit limit. So, the ROS skyrockets. This could have been done much better if you had a smoother way to go from one bit limit to another. And in this case, it it has to do with their promotions as well. But I promise you, if they could just do this a little bit more smoothly, then it would work much
[679s]
better. So, again, the solution to all this is to slowly get out of your old Mac CBC's and or adjust your ROS as you go along. The third mistake I see is basically the opposite and it is never changing them. So your max bid limit is not a max CPC limit. It's a limit for how high your bid can go. Not b not basically for how high your CPC can go. Even though they're very related, then remember you your cost per click in Google is what the advertiser below you and the auction is bidding. So your max
[709s]
bid limit is not the same as your max CPC limit. So there's times during the year that you need to change that ceiling you where you need to change that limit. A very good example is Black Friday. However, the same thing matches out for the rest of the year. So let's try to look at this particular case. Again, this is Black Friday. It's super easy to follow. But look at it here. We our average CBC throughout the month is around four to five croner and then around Black Friday it skyrockets up to 14 kroner. Most of the year we run a 12
[740s]
kroner max bit limit. If we hadn't changed this for Black Friday, no matter what happens, then our seasonal bid adjustments wouldn't have done much once we got past the 12 croner bid and for some of the products, some of the things we actually wanted to do it. And that's kind of what we saw here was that actually I was a little bit late to increasing the max bit limits on Thursday and we didn't see the drive that we normally would at this time of the year in terms of going from Wednesday to Thursday, which was unfortunate. We had a much better ROS that that day, but we were still having
[771s]
a slightly higher ROS than what we actually wanted to achieve. The fourth mistake is using the same max bit limit across all campaigns. This is where your campaign structure becomes important. However, if you have the same AOV and the same CPCs across your account, then this doesn't really matter. But if you sell coats with a again that has a high AOV and underwear that has a low A ob, then you can end up strangling your high A obs with a too low max bit limit while at the same time have no impact on your underwear campaign. So the solution is
[801s]
to make sure that you split these products up into different campaigns. But again, only if you need to and only if you see the point in doing it and if you're going to use this as an aggressive tactic. I'll say this, it's very, very rare that we will split up campaigns per category. We will take high AOV products and usually put them in their own campaign if we have enough conversion volume for them to run by themselves because then we can work with a different target. We can work with different budget. We can work with a different max bit limit and it's just a better way to work with them. It's not
[831s]
always we do it. It's not always it's necessary. It's one of those like edge cases. 5% of the account can do better by doing it. Sometimes it's it's it's super important. Sometimes it's not. But in summary, in 80% of the cases that I see, then smart bing is doing pretty good job. But in the edge cases, in order to hit get to the next level, get the last five, 10, 15% of performance out of your Google Ads account. That's where smart bidding might bid too high and we can't just run seasonal bid adjustments forever. And that's when max bit limits become a really good tool to
[862s]
override smart bidding. Just be careful when you do it. If you have any suggestions, if you have any comments on how to do smart bidding with max bit limits, I'd love to hear them in the comments. Otherwise, subscribe for the next video that comes out next week. If you're into practical PPC insights that you can actually help you, then subscribe. I share tips, breakdowns, and call out what's working and what's not. No fluff, just the stuff that you can use every single week.