[2s]
Welcome. I'm Jill Saskingales, a Google Ads coach at Inside Google Ads and I'm here with Andrew Lok who is the founder of Savvy Revenue. And today we are going to talk about automation in Google search ads because if you are running Google search ads today or Google Shopping Ads, no matter how much you try to lock things down, there is going to be some degree of automation coming in there. Andrew, how are you doing today? &gt;&gt; So far so good. This is my last thing of the day. Then we're going uh to the Mexican version of Napa Valley,
[32s]
actually. Uh wine country. So &gt;&gt; that's last thing to do of the day. &gt;&gt; Last thing of the day. It's my last thing of the day, too. After this, I'm heading over to my parents house for dinner with my kids and everything. So, I will have a slightly more relaxing and sober evening than you. It sounds like [laughter] &gt;&gt; we have in-laws here, so it's basically the same thing. &gt;&gt; Basically the same thing. &gt;&gt; Basically the same thing. Well, before we kick off today and talk about all different aspects of hidden search terms and broad match and AIMAX and all these things, I want to give a little bit of
[62s]
context for why Andrew and I are the ones here having this conversation today. So, I was thinking back, Andrew, the first time we spoke was when we were on the PPC Town Hall podcast with Fred, actually speaking about a similar topic, but it was a whole year ago. And I remember in that conversation that you and I were disagreeing a lot, but respectfully so. You would share, well, here's what I always do. And I'd be like, well, actually, I always do it that way. And this is a theme I've noticed as we've become friends over the last year. You know, when you spoke at Hero Comp, I remember you spoke about um
[92s]
how like brand is a waste and not to advertise on your brand and I was sitting there watching you like I disagree with so much of what he's saying and yet I also really respect and feel like I'm learning something useful even through the fact that I don't agree with it all, you know? And then we were in Amsterdam together, Friends of Search, we were at Google Marketing Live together. And this is a really important theme. I wanted to bring up before we get into the conversation today because I think sometimes online people will disagree with someone and it turns into like disagree with a person and you're so wrong and you're terrible. And one of
[124s]
the many reasons I like being friends with you is I really respect your expertise. I really respect your point of view. I don't always agree with what you say and still I feel like I learn really helpful things from you. So I just want to share that before we dive in today. Thank you for sharing your perspective today. I just I think it's like I think the longer you've been in this industry, we've all been wrong enough to know that it's it's it's actually a good thing if some other people have different opinions. Like some of the core things that I know
[154s]
today is because somebody said it somewhere and I was like, "Aha, I are you sure?" And then you look into it and like this actually works. Okay, let's let's let's do that. Uh I think I think a healthy skepticism to what everybody's saying is a good thing. like there's also thing you and I also work in more or less completely different industries. Uh so that that gives different context where I can remember when I work with with small business owners and it's just a completely different ballpark. So I agree I agree fully with with everything
[185s]
you just said. &gt;&gt; Look at that agree on something. &gt;&gt; So when I get very negative on somebody in five minutes then then that person just needs to remember we just said that. &gt;&gt; Not at all. Not at all. Well, let's start. You know, uh it feels like as much as anything can ever be controversial in the world of paid ads, that the latest controversy on uh PPC LinkedIn at least, I'm sure it's on X as well, is run in hidden search terms. And the fact that now more than ever when you go look at your search terms report, you will see search terms there. Even in
[215s]
PMAX, you will see search terms now as well as search and shopping. But a huge chunk of your investment will be these other search terms that you can't see. Google says this is for privacy reasons. Conspiracy theorists say otherwise. I personally choose to go with Google's explanation that it's privacy or some other reason. We just can't see it. Uh and so recently, people have been talking about how hidden search terms is a big waste of money. I actually had a lawyer DM me on LinkedIn saying he was filing a lawsuit against Google over
[247s]
other search terms and did I want to comment? I was like, heck no, I do not want to comment. But that's how big this has sort of gotten. And so I know you and I were DMing about this. I'd love to hear your perspective. First question for you, are hidden search terms a good thing or a bad thing or neutral? &gt;&gt; It's absolutely horrible. Like it's &gt;&gt; absolutely horrible. Okay. &gt;&gt; It like it's it the fact that &gt;&gt; so again I work in e-commerce. We have plenty of data. So it's usually it's not
[277s]
something we have to pay a lot of attention to. But when we did the times we do venture into B2B e-commerce or we venture into more niche areas where you start seeing okay half or 60 or 70% of the search is just gone and you can't really figure out what to do because you don't have that much data. It you just you just your hands are tied behind your back. You you can't do anything about it. So I I completely agree goo like I agree with Google's privacy concerns and and somebody at Google explained it to me in very fundamental
[308s]
ways that I can't repeat because I was told not to repeat it. I think you heard the same explanations. Uh so I actually I I understand it from their point of view and I think they could do a better job if they came out and said some of those things. Um because it it made it made me more friendly towards what they're trying to do. With that being said, I I think we maybe not being able to see live hidden all search terms, but they should be able to somehow process old search terms and open them up after a day or two when they can see that it's not like when
[340s]
they can see it's not a privacy related issue and I don't know how they would exactly do that but again we are processing privacy related data when it comes to the conversion tracking. So all this like like all the things that come in through conversion tracking with the phone numbers with the names with the email addresses that come in through enhanced conversions they have a way of hashing that. Isn't there a way for them to hash identify do something in a closed sandbox and then release anything that's not p like that's not privacy uh that's not a privacy concern. So I think as a fundamental thing I think Google
[370s]
needs to fix the hidden search terms. I think they need to explain it better. And we've seen how Google sometimes I think does a really good job of the way they brand and explain things and sometimes perhaps not such a good job. Like I think AIMAX is an example of brilliant branding because they brought a bunch of stuff that was already in Google Ads that a lot of us didn't like keywordless targeting. Google never said those words until AIAX. Not all of us would have hated that but all of a sudden we like it or final URL expansion, you know, all of a sudden
[400s]
it's an AI. We're going to test it. So Google really does a good job sometimes, but I agree with you with other search terms. I don't think Google has communicated well about this. And you know what I wish is like I get that for my own account, you can't tell me what the hidden search terms would be. But I would love if Google could come out and share some hypothetical examples of like a kind of search that would be visible and a related one that would not be visible. &gt;&gt; Yeah. They've never shared that, have they? like they've never come with they've never come with an example of what what is a privacy
[433s]
the closest thing that I've seen that that's actually a concern is like when I on my on my Pixel phone if I highlight like an account number or something like that uh then it will automatically go into lens which means it will automatically create a Google search for it. I can see that's an issue. I can see where I would be like where it would create 50% of searches on Google uh that advertisers would match for. So that's something again if I choose like my kids like driving school and then the account number and I highlight all of it to send
[463s]
it to my wife. Okay. Then I see it but can like okay if there's a number in the search term then it's out. Okay. &gt;&gt; Well be monetizable right? Like there shouldn't be ads on that search anyway. Ex &gt;&gt; Exactly. So like it does feed into the whole thing with is hidden search terms a good thing or is it a bad thing and also what's the performance related to them because that's really where all this conversation &gt;&gt; came from. [snorts] &gt;&gt; Yeah. And I would say like when I'm you know I work with a mix of like I'd call them small to mediumsiz advertisers probably twothirds lead genen one third
[494s]
ecom and I tend to see if we're using exact match stuff maybe like 10 to 20% of spend goes to other. If we're using phrase match, it tends to be like 5050. And if we're using broad match, it tends to be like 80% hidden, 20% visible. And it was interesting something you said earlier. It's like, well, we can't really do anything about it. It's like we can't see what's in the hidden other search terms, but it's still something I always like to analyze because sometimes the hidden stuff performs better than the visible stuff. And it's like, okay,
[525s]
what does that tell us? If we know that a lot of longer tail, more specific queries are helpful, how might that adjust versus if we see that the hidden stuff is performing terribly, well, you know, do we need to adjust our bid strategy? Do we need to look at what we can see and add more negatives because Google tells us negatives do affect the hidden other stuff. Um, but the black box is uh it's tricky. It's tricky. So, I know earlier this week, Andrew, you shared on LinkedIn your perspective about kind of non-brand hidden search
[555s]
terms, brand hidden search terms. I none of us like hidden search terms obviously, but it exists. Um, &gt;&gt; do you think that it's just Google stealing money from us or do you tend to see it perform similarly? Like what's your &gt;&gt; your feelings about the results you're seeing? Not the fact that it exists. It exists, but like the results you see in the impact. I think I think overall my and I think you this is another thing you and I agree on is and we'll get into all the stuff we disagree on later I'm sure but I think the the whole mindset
[586s]
of like that that there is a core group of people in Google working to cheat us out of our out of our money. That's that it's a belief I don't agree with. I think Google is way too big for that to happen. Is there things that they do that I don't agree with like the KPIs for all of their account managers to pursue a certain adoption of PMAX and all that stuff that can have some adverse react adverse effects in terms of quote unquote getting more money out of advertisers. But fundamentally I
[618s]
don't think there's an engineer sitting at Google saying let's hide search terms so they can go up and stuff like that. I just I I don't think that that's the case. So I think that argument just needs to be thrown out. um that then when it comes to like the performance of hidden search terms that the the article really really surprised me uh and because we look at these things all the time it's it's the good old fashion like ever since you and I got in the industry many many years ago you look at mobile versus uh desktop then we used to remove mobile because it just performed really poorly then that became a really bad
[648s]
idea then it there was also display uh display that was associated with all search campaigns also easy fix 50% of spend goes away. No performance difference whatsoever. So, we've [clears throat] always looked at all these different segments and we keep an eye on it at at Savvy because it is something we are very worried about, but it's like it's like search partners. We look at it maybe once a year, once a quarter when we do something bigger just to keep an it flagged for us before. So I was like when I when I saw the article
[678s]
and I saw the claim that that okay that there was like a do it was pretty big claim but like it was like 20% of spend is just absolutely wasted. I was like okay that's a big thing. Um because if there is and this is where like disagreeing and just hearing other people's perspectives if I can remove 20% of waste to spend from our accounts and savvy I would do it like I don't have to agree on all these things with hidden sources but if that's a mechanism is that a lever I can pull I'll do it
[708s]
but then when I looked in at our own data I didn't see the same thing and then I was like so I I know Colin who wrote the article behind the scenes we we've hung out several times met um so I wrote him like call him what the f what the fudge like like what are you doing? Uh and and he then pointed me to the article like did you read it? I was like no I just read the headline like everybody else. Uh and then I went in and I was like they actually they say it themselves once they pull out branded search terms it's not it's a non-issue. It's the same performance on hidden
[738s]
versus non-hidden. Um &gt;&gt; pull it out away. &gt;&gt; Pardon? &gt;&gt; I want Oh my screen blanked out. &gt;&gt; Oh no. You're still here. We got you. Okay, that's good. But it's it was it was a performance difference between so between at the non-brand side, there was no issue whatsoever, which I thought was really &gt;&gt; hidden invisible, right? It was about the same row. Yeah. &gt;&gt; So that's the same thing we see. And again, this is e-commerce DTOC uh e-commerce, so there's no issues and with plenty of data and stuff like that. So, I just I I think it's it's one of
[769s]
those things that a lot of people will take that and use the argument that something is completely wrong instead of going in and saying, "Okay, there's actually nothing wrong." Then there's Anthony uh who does uh he does law marketing for lawyers. He's absolutely like he's screwed. Like it's it's a huge issue. And like another example was like somebody paying $500 for a a competitor term like $500 CBC for a competitor term. How many of those are are in the hidden search terms? So, I think it's an
[800s]
issue, but I think for 80% of advertisers out there, it's not like it's not really an issue. It's not the biggest &gt;&gt; issue. You look at it like you look at anything else to your point, right? Like the one thing I do really like about the headline, it made us all think and talk, which I think is great for our industry and it'll probably cause a lot of advertisers who didn't even know about this to go check their search terms report and look. I think that's a great takeaway, but it doesn't mean action is needed. &gt;&gt; No. And I and I think like it's it's it's it's like it's like it's it's like all of
[831s]
LinkedIn. It's so sensationalist like like like just calm down everybody. Like it's it's with like a lot of things. Just it's not that bad. We're talking about keywords to ads, landing pages, and then we need to fix some things. And and that's that's Google ads. Like you know, I've been in the industry long enough that that's basically it. And then there are some people and I like I made a post like a week ago on Twitter about like there's this famous uh PPC influ PBC influencer uh doesn't do any PBC. Um
[861s]
and there were a lot of a lot of suggestions. There's a lot of hate for some a lot of PBC influencers out there. Nobody guessed it right. So that's a that's a fun thing. But it's just like some of these things just doesn't matter when you're actually hands-on with accounts. And that's what I think I wanted to highlight the most with the hidden search terms. It's not that big. Like look at it, but it's not that big of a deal. Move on everybody. Move on. Don't take the fight with Google. You can't like we we can highlight it. We've seen things work when we say to them many times. I can say I can say for a fact we're not getting full search term
[891s]
data back unless they can do something with with with their AI models that can unclassify things. But other than we're not getting it's a drum we need to stop beating because we're not getting it. &gt;&gt; I'm with you. And actually something that happened a year or two ago was you used to so you used to see all search terms and then there was a time where you could only see search terms if you got at least one click on the search term and then this change happened where we got a ton more search term visibility where you can now see some searches even if you only got one impression and no
[922s]
clicks. So it's this and &gt;&gt; do you look at them do you look at at at impressions without like search terms without clicks? Do you do you &gt;&gt; when I look at a search terms report I sort of descending by impressions. So sometimes we might see a search term that had like 200 impressions and no clicks and that's the reason I sort it that way and in that circumstance you can add it as a negative but often I'm like no action is needed because by the time I'm looking at this a week later smart bidding has learned and so that was the other thing I was going to say if like usually when I see hidden other search terms being a problem it's for
[953s]
like smaller budget lead generation advertisers where a conversion in Google ads is not a real business conversion which is why this is an issue. So, like the problem isn't hidden search terms, that's the symptom of the fact that you're using smart bidding towards an action that's not the real action. And this is why I think it's not as much of an issue in e-commerce because you're using a purchase money in hand. And so, while initially you may see hidden stuff, initially you may see some search terms that don't do well, by the time you go to try to add it as a negative or whack it into submission, like smart bidding has learned and it's going to
[984s]
move on because it wants to achieve your objective. And so that's the root cause to come to either offline conversion tracking or smart bidding rather than a symptom which is hidden search terms. &gt;&gt; And people people will fight you on what you just said that like that the smart can figure it out like I I do agree like like to a certain extent smart bing figures out and I'll say the same thing and then there is like 10 15 20% where it's just this is just bad. Again, if you and again, we go back to if we're going to see half the search terms, we should like there shouldn't be a huge
[1014s]
difference between what we see and then what we are otherwise matched with. It's not like there should be like if we we're advertising for shoes, then we'll see shoes generally. Okay, that might be a very broad suggestion. Let's say we we have like uh slim notepads, &gt;&gt; okay? &gt;&gt; Then we'll see search terms for slim notepads. It's not going to if it gets expanded over to something else which we'll talk about with broad match in a bit. If this gets expanded then into something completely horrible it will
[1044s]
also see it in the visible search terms. So like I don't believe that there is a completely different type of hidden search terms that just don't perform at all or that Google is hiding some expansions into there. Google's doing a good job on highlighting with AI max what is AI max match side with smart bidding exploration which I would love to talk about later as well because people are starting to hate on that that really really quickly. Um then it's it's just they're adding a lot of transparency and they need to get some credit for that.
[1074s]
Yeah. I I just think just you should be able to see kind of the search of your hitting and if you is there something that's not working like if you're selling posters you will get a lot of impressions and clicks for people just searching for dinosaurs if you have a dinosaur poster with figurines with all it happens and Google doesn't really know to completely remove it because it's a very low CPC you get a lot of traffic from it seems to and the CTR is high so it seems they have some indicators that you should be visible for this search term and that's where we
[1104s]
can go any go and we know we're not supposed to be here but that's in the that's that is visible and if I remove dinosaur there I'll remove dinosaur from elsewhere too. And there's 18 different ways to counter counter counter argue what I just said but as fundamental I don't think is a bigger nature &gt;&gt; and it's also you know moving into kind of broad match and AI max the whole point of that is that the smart bidding assuming you're using it with smart bidding is going to look at the user's query but also everything else it knows about that user. So, for your dinosaur
[1135s]
poster example, like it's possible that yesterday the person was searching for posters. Today, they just type in dinosaur. Google knows, but you don't. That right before that they were on your competitor's website looking at dinosaur posters and then they came to Google and just searched dinosaur. So, you would want to show them an ad in that specific situation. Now, is that going to be every single situation? No. But I say that to say, especially, you know, as Google talked about a GML, we're moving from like keyword query matching to intent matching and intent predicting,
[1167s]
um, you're going to start to see even more search terms with broad match. And especially with AI Max that you're like, I would have never put that in as a keyword. And it's like, yeah, that's the point. If you want to grow your account, &gt;&gt; that's the point. But you pair it with smart bidding, it's going to do some dumb stuff. Like smart bidding starts as dumb bidding. We all start dumb when we're born. We learn and we grow. Uh but it's hard to have the patience to do that. And it's a complete reversal of how we all did this 10 years ago for those of us who are doing this 10 years ago. &gt;&gt; Completely. And this you may like it's
[1199s]
only going to get worse with with AI. Like one of the things that I think we [clears throat] all agree on is that with AI we're going to get a lot more context and and Google is already using that context. Like this is what you searched for before. This is the pages that you visited. So your search how how commercial is your search? how how likely are you to buy something? And that's I've always been a little bit after Google on this front because I think they should do a better job showing that that there's something there that hey, these guys have visited something before. These are a higher search intent. This is why the CPC is
[1229s]
higher. This is why this I think because the data is there and I would love for them to show it and I say it every single time I meet them. Can you just give me a report that shows all these things? When you bit higher, when you do this, then then you do more. And I when they when I say it, they just like you give me a wireframe, you give me a mockup, Andrew, of what you want of how you want me to how you want to show that. Um, so they they've definitely thought about it. Uh, but they think it's a very difficult job to do. &gt;&gt; We do get a bit of it like the insights tab in performance max. I think I've
[1260s]
also seen it in shopping before. They'll show you like which audience segments you overindex for. Max, they just added the um personas. They'll show like certain creative resonates with certain audience. So like we get a bit of it, you know, I get more than we used to. That &gt;&gt; you should. But I just I would love to get more like love to get more. Uh I would love to get more. But it also like if if if the conversation starts becoming like how many of the old manual things we used to do are still important and one of those things is negative keywords versus uh the effect of it is
[1291s]
really getting really low because it's getting really hard to figure out what's the intent behind the search. Um, so I just like I we we we sell we have a client that sells accessories or jewelry for men. And one of the first things when we took over the account was we had a conversation around search and should all keywords be combined with for men because they were like yeah of course and I was like yeah but then there's suspenders
[1321s]
like 90% of of people searching for that are men ties men. So no then we're limiting the account. Then the conversation started going around. Okay, what about earrings? Yeah, that's like when 80% of people search for earrings are probably women. We should then we need to have have the qualifier in there. And then there was what about titanium earrings? What about steel? Like what when does a term by its intent and of itself actually become a men's search instead of a unisex search versus a a female search? So, and I
[1353s]
think there's there's a really good relation over the negative keywords on that because you can overly add negative keywords today and especially in the AI world if you go this is just a negative I shouldn't show here. I the video I did right before this was like was a said in nicely terms. So, it was a critique of one of the LinkedIn comments or get uh uh strategies and one of the things was like add negative keywords every 48 hours. I was like that's a bad idea. That's a really really really bad idea.
[1383s]
But there's still people who do that. And I think just like really trying to relax the algorithm and this goes back to old oldfashioned thing. Add the right data. Let the automation run. Remove the 10 20% that that you can see is absolutely absolutely garbage. Uh but then like don't think you know it all. There is also value in a click and this is where you and I are going to start different because like the value for a click for small advertiser is really different from somebody trying to push into 100 or five or a million K or a
[1413s]
million a month and spend. &gt;&gt; Totally. It totally is. And it's sort of, you know, what we're both getting at is um that now with all these whether it's AI targeting, AI creative, it is like leading from the front with the right data rather than like swatting from behind with the negatives and the exclusions and the whatever. But actually something I learned from you. I think it was one of your YouTube videos, but it could have been at friends of search was you talked about removing negative keywords, how you had this client. Could you tell us that story because I've since done this with clients and it's been great and I would
[1443s]
love for you to explain what you did and what you found. &gt;&gt; So it comes back to the way that a lot of people have worked with negative keywords over the years and especially agencies will have certain processes that everybody follow. And one of those processes uh that that is a leftover from a long time ago. I used to I used to kind of do it, but but I never really bought into it being a thing, but it's it's the whole thing about keyword cannibalization. So you have [snorts] you have [clears throat] the search term in you have the keyword in so you have the
[1475s]
keyword Nike running shoes and you have the keyword Adidas running shoes and you exclude Adidas from the Nike campaign and this whole thing. That's a bad example, but you're still running &gt;&gt; keyword sculpting is what I've heard of called. &gt;&gt; Yeah, keyword sculpting. Uh I've always called it cannibalization. And there's many different levels of doing this. There is doing it like that. So you just add any keyword that has an exact match in as a negative reversed and you also do it in your dynamic search ads campaign. You take every single live keyword that you have and
[1505s]
you put as a negative in dynamic search ads. You force it over to there. There is some meaning to the madness and I can argue for why partially it's a good idea. uh but fundamentally it just limits the the campaigns completely. If a keyword or search term is shown in dynamic search ads or is showing up for a different uh different keyword for whatever reason then fundamentally it means that the ad rank for the keyword that you have is too low. that means your quality score is too low or there's some historical data that means it's
[1536s]
wrong and the result of you ne negating or adding negative keywords in the rest of your campaign means that you're trying to force this low ad rank keyword to show and it's not supposed to show. So it won't show and that means that you're basically just eliminating the account. In some places it's 5% some places as much as 10 20 30%. and and there's this one agency we keep taking accounts from and we do the same thing every time and we get a 50% increase year-over-year when we remove [laughter] the the negative keywords the first
[1566s]
thing we do every single time. So it it it's really going back and saying we trust Google's algorithms and we trust the automation, we trust smart bidding to figure out what should we bid for, what should we not bid for. And again there there's some there there's some method to the madness. So if you completely remove all negatives from an account that's been overly structured with negatives, it's going to release like this. So you want to have okay budget set in place that's not my traditional like double triple quadruple
[1596s]
10x the daily spend which I sometimes like to do but just like 20% higher than what you normally spend. Maybe use some max CPC limits in your portfolios just to just to say okay don't go absolutely crazy here but you kind of lean into it. You can also just delete 10 20% of the negative keywords per week so you don't release completely and draw too much inefficiency because there there's of course some inefficiency in there but the amount of accounts that we've taken in the last year maybe five and again we
[1626s]
don't take more than eight accounts in a year maybe five five of those eight have all had all negative negative keywords removed and all have outperformed after which is interesting. Yeah, it's amazing. And I saw this. So, there's a client I was working with who um smaller kind of Etsy shop owner who launched their Shopify store and they had a bunch of negatives in there and um and so I saw your video and happened to meet them the next day and I was like, you know what, just remove the negatives. Just remove the negatives and see what happens, right? And what happened is they started serving ads on all kinds of
[1657s]
competitor search terms. Like if they were Adidas, all of a sudden Nike running shoes, Lululemon running started coming in and it converted really well. and they were surprised. And so then we met, you know, a month later and we looked like their conversions had gone up, their rorowaz had gone up, everything had moved in the right direction just by removing all these negatives. And looking at the search terms, we saw, guess what? You do really well when people are searching for competitors. Obviously, didn't perform the same as their own brand, but it performed just as any other non-brand
[1687s]
search terms would. And that was a great learning. And it was because they had an assumption. I shouldn't bid on competitors. And it's like well actually &gt;&gt; and another aspect of it is so so there's one aspect was the keyword sculpting or cannibalization. There's also just like what didn't work a year ago might work today. Like especially in e-commerce like if if like there's like I I everybody agrees offplatform optimizations again prices, product pages, etc. Just as important as what you do in the platform, [clears throat] but if there's something
[1717s]
like like if [laughter] you in Europe, we have a lot of stores that sell a lot of different like that's a that are resellers. few of them in the US just in general because it's all Amazon over here. But if you're a reseller and like you have 10 blenders, then the keyword blender is not going to work. You're not going to like as soon as you don't have the right to hit a keyword that early in the funnel. So you're not it's not going to work. So you're going to exclude it. But a year later, if you've expanded to 50 or 100 or 200, then you can suddenly hit
[1747s]
that that keyword and it will perform for you. Try keeping track of that. there's like this it makes no sense. So, so like working with negatives as well. So, a removing them once a year makes sense to try, but there's also just like categorizing your negatives. So, in in one account, we have a peak over the summer and we're saying we have peak negative keywords and we have uh low season uh negative keywords. &gt;&gt; So, during peak we only leave the negative keyword list that what we call
[1778s]
they're complete irrelevant. They sell categories we don't like it's category searches we don't sell. It is some is agreements with competitors we shouldn't be bidding for completely. But outside that we have a low season where if this didn't perform in low season like then we we still let it spend over peak because everything does better at peak. And this is like the same thing like it used to be the trick with like mobile adjustment mobile bid adjustment back in manual on Black Friday and in Christmas. Just just remove it. just let it let it
[1809s]
flow. Performance was amazing because nobody did the same thing. They were just like overall change their beds. So it's [snorts] the same thing here like when it's peak whether or not it's a seasonal peak to your industry or if it is something related to Black Friday Christmas so it's more of an overall peak release release everything you'll see everything just starts converting better. What didn't work a year or six months ago will suddenly start working. And then there's a trick. How do you actually implement the negative keywords again if you have to? Do you say, "Okay,
[1841s]
this is just now we do a fresh start." Or do you apply the negative keyword list again afterwards? I I go either way. I like to think about like accounts as peace time versus wartime. &gt;&gt; Have you ever heard that term? &gt;&gt; Um well, when I worked at Google, we used to call it a war room, but then that was not um politically correct. So, it changed to a win room. Now they're called win rooms. So I I I say sorry if if if if you have some headroom in your in your grow in your performance and you're basically doing good, you're profitable, then
[1872s]
you're at peace time, then remove too many negatives, too many like too um restricting the system is a bad thing. However, if I am losing money, if we are not doing well, if we're unprofitable, then you take then you remove all the all all the waste that you can find. You remove it. uh and you okay you say okay I also lose out on 10 or 20% of of top revenue of the scale but I'm not trying to scale right now I'm just trying to make it profitable so we I like to think of it a p as peace time and war time how
[1904s]
to how do I actually do it &gt;&gt; growth time and steady state time maybe would be our nonwar language way to say it no what I like it's true different times whatever if you're in the roofing industry right like the summer and the winter are really going to be different for you Um, I was just on a coaching call with someone whose clients are in like a medical field and I didn't know but in that specific medical field there's huge seasonality changes and it doesn't always just mean Black Friday, Cyber Monday for retailers. Lots of different industries can have different
[1935s]
way, you know, apps have different seasonality. Gyms have different seasonality, you know, and it's important to to keep that in mind and and allocate budget accordingly throughout the year. &gt;&gt; I wanted to talk about broad match. &gt;&gt; Let's talk about broad match. What do you want to say? We haven't disagreed yet, Andrew. I'm a little bit disappointed. [laughter] &gt;&gt; It's because I'm being fair today. &gt;&gt; You're being We disagree when you're not being fair. Uh oh. I always have to catch you at the end of the day on a Friday. &gt;&gt; I wanted to like show a report because
[1965s]
there's a lot of that there's a lot there's a lot of people that go out and they talk about broad match &gt;&gt; as if it's like absolutely magical. &gt;&gt; Um, and it's the key to growing accounts and stuff like that. And I wanted to let me just uh let me just &gt;&gt; Yeah, you hit the share button and I'll put it on screen for us. &gt;&gt; image file. Share screen. &gt;&gt; You know what? I'm going to share my snag it and I'll put some screenshots in there. &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; Just because then I don't have to show
[1995s]
client name. &gt;&gt; Excellent. So, can I add this to the screen right now? What you're sharing? &gt;&gt; Yes. So, let me see if I can just get it. No, wait. That's There you go. Okay, &gt;&gt; then it's a little bit better bigger. Um, so what we're looking at here is the typical report you you pull out out of Google Ads. You say, "Okay, we have uh the keyword match type. This is the report a lot of people will will go and look at overall for the entire account.
[2025s]
Uh, I've excluded brand terms here. And you'll go exact match, phrase match, broad match, and you'll see broad match spends the most. And basically &gt;&gt; pretty similar across all of them. &gt;&gt; Yeah, they're pretty similar which is surprising. Uh but ROS is also pretty similar. So this will if if you just look at this on the surface it'll go like hey third of our spend a little bit like maybe even a little bit higher is actually going to broadband broad is really working and this is like a lot of things in PBC if you don't look deeper
[2055s]
you miss things. There's such a thing as search terms match type. And again, it goes back into when we talk about search terms uh and hidden search terms. But in this report, can I remove this? No. There we go. There we go. Is it too small for people to see? &gt;&gt; I don't know. If anybody work clients, they need to use snag it. So they can do like this. &gt;&gt; Huh, that's cool. &gt;&gt; And then you can do this and then your
[2085s]
screenshots much simpler. So this is the search term match type report. So the difference here is that the one looks at a keyword match type and this look at a search terms match type. So if and this is really what it shows is that you're seeing that 80 more like 60% of the spend goes to the exact match exact match exact match term. &gt;&gt; Can I explain for a moment before you continue? &gt;&gt; Yeah, explain explain explain. &gt;&gt; Sure. So the search term matchup is when
[2116s]
you look at your search term report. Let's say you have a broad match keyword of Google ads course. Okay. If someone searches Google ads course that would be considered an exact match. Even though your search your keyword is in broad match the user search exactly matches. Whereas if the user searches for um learn Google Ads, that would probably be considered an exact match close variant to your broad match keyword, Google Ads course. Whereas someone searches um
[2148s]
Facebook ads login, [laughter] that would probably be a broad match match to your broad match keyword. So what we're looking at here is not the match type of your keyword, but how Google determines your search terms matched to your keywords. Back to you, Andrew. &gt;&gt; Exactly. And that's the that's that's the point when people say hey when because I can definitely see when you look at the first report and you go hey broad match is spending 40% of the spending account and the rorowaz is pretty good like why should we do anything about it and it's super
[2178s]
important so you can kind of start assuming like we need broad match to scale we need broad match to do this this and that but when you actually look at okay if you didn't have broad match you would have hit 90% of the same search terms anyways in this case it's performing like we want it's like I don't want to remove it. It's like again I'm not saying anything negative about it's just knowing what what you're supposed to do in the right time then really works because I'm I'm happy with a 5x return on broad match that extra scale and what it hits there. I'm I'm
[2208s]
I'm happy. I'm I have no issue whatsoever. The one thing I did on this account on top of this is I went and I looked at it on a campaign level. Some campaigns the roles was like 1x on broad match. So really removing it in those cases made sense. Also looking at what what keywords actually resulted in a good broad match match so to speak. Um so I think just looking one step deeper when we talk about broad match when we talk about search we talk about all these things is really really valuable
[2239s]
because otherwise we'll end up just thinking that hey this is what moves the needle and if I've done this ah now it works. It's broad match can work definitely but phrase match and like we all complain about how phrase and exact match are really really aggressive today with their matching you don't like broad match is really broad and that goes the whole conversation over into AI max &gt;&gt; what will AI max bring to the table and how does it change the campaign structure that we need to think about
[2269s]
moving forward &gt;&gt; it's interesting before we get there I'm someone who like up until let's call it 2018 18 I was a phrase match girly cuz I'm like let's start with phrase and then based on what we see we can either loosen up to broad tighten up to exact but phrase is sort of our like in the middle goldilocks and now I'm like exactly I barely use phrase because I'm like either I want as much control as Google will give me which exact match does only to a point of course because of closed variance or I want to leverage
[2299s]
the addition additional signals and contextual cues that broad match has when paired with smart bidding that phrase match does not have. So for me, I don't tend to use phrase match anymore. But where I like to use this view you're showing right now, especially with smaller clients, is we'll look at the search terms report. We'll look at, you know, the top 50 by impressions and we'll just eyeball that that match type column and see like is most of our stuff coming from close varants or the keyword
[2329s]
itself. Is most of it coming from more broader phrase matches or exact matches? And that's how we can help determine if we're using broad match, do we want to stay there or do we want to narrow or vice versa? If we're using exact match, you know, are we getting a lot of close variance or not? Like it can help you figure out how to expand or potentially restrict. I've never looked at this report view though like on a macro view on uh the whole thing. And it is really interesting to see. And so in this circumstance, you're saying even though the broad match is a much smaller portion of spend and does have a lower
[2360s]
rorowaz, it still meets your goals. And it's kind of like if you had erased that row, like if you had just not had the broad match, you would have gotten a similar amount of revenue for a higher rorowaz, but the slightly lower rorowaz is acceptable to you for the incremental revenue you're able to get as a result, right? &gt;&gt; Yep. I'm I'm very I'm I'm very happy with it. Uh so it's a you're you're spot on. You're spot on. &gt;&gt; And so have you been experimenting with smart bidding exploration at all? Because that's exactly what smart bidding exploration was designed for.
[2391s]
So, this is actually where it starts getting really interesting. So, &gt;&gt; I thought it was already interesting. So, now I'm extra excited. &gt;&gt; So, I've tested it and outside of a couple days where this just didn't work at all. It like shut off my account or shut off the campaigns. It was really really weird. But, &gt;&gt; got to love [snorts] the betas. The the thing to look at here and and this is a kind of an interesting case because we so the one thing to look at is the drop
[2421s]
down that's come in that's called unique search categories and then you can look at it whether or not it's with conversions, clicks or impressions. That's really where you try to find out how much net new uh are is is smart bing try to find in this case. &gt;&gt; Can I pause you for one just to make sure I understand because this is all very new. So the red line is showing your campaign, what it was getting, what it would have gotten, and then the blue line, Google is showing you what it got from the smart spinning exploration. &gt;&gt; No, in this case, we're doing average
[2451s]
target ROS. So basically what the target ROS was, that's &gt;&gt; okay. Which you changed through the period. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And then the blue one is uh is how many unique search categories we're hitting. And whole the whole thing of smart bidding exploration is that when we enable that it should chase more unique. We're we're allowing it to say okay you can hit overall 10% lower rowers in this period which means that basically you can spend 10% of the budget and get no return worst case scenario. that that's what we started
[2482s]
and the re the way we we we manage this a ton with just increasing and decreasing targets all the time to try to say hey go out and find data &gt;&gt; restrict restrict go and find data restrict restrict restrict so smart bidding exploration for me is amazing it's it's a better way than what it did before because what we did before it would potentially once you uh make turn decrease your target ros D like we can see here the target rows is decreased and it goes up in the unique search categories, but it will also increase
[2514s]
the bids for your existing what I call search categories or segments. It will increase the bids because it can and sometimes it's just a bad idea, &gt;&gt; but we wanted to go explore and that's what smart bidding exploration does. [snorts] And I thought this was really interesting because we went in and we actually decreased the raw target quite significantly from 500 to 400 um here and it did increase the unique search categories or the same time we enable smart bidding exploration with 10%.
[2544s]
That's what the green line down here shows. But then we started slowly increasing the target rows again and we can see that it actually didn't drop the unique search categories until we started going back to 500 conversion 500 uh% target rows and the question is then which we need to wait another week have is there anything with the conversions that were still pending like is the conversion like from last week in completely so there's there's still some data that's pending but the initial data when we look at also different accounts
[2574s]
is kind of the same thing Smart bidding exploration, it does impact the amount of unique search categories you're getting, which for the right case can be lethal because like I say a lot, lowering your ROS target doesn't mean necessarily that you lower your actual ROA because if Google during a peak season, like I have a client that sells swimwear right now, we're going to get a lot of swimware stuff in like and the more we tell it, hey, go explore, then
[2604s]
the next search term is more likely to actually perform really well than it is to perform poorly. So the ROS can actually be quite high even though we lower the rows. The same thing with smart bidding exploration. So all the people and that's kind of like I don't want to pull up this one but like because then you can people can see the name but like I saw on LinkedIn already people are already being really negative on smart bing exploration. It's just stealing. It's just taking money away. It's just wasting your budget. It's just and all that is correct if you don't use it correctly. Like all these
[2634s]
features are just use it at the right time for the right purpose. Just like new customer acquisition, just like all those other tools and features we have available, they're really really good at the right time. But if you try to enable smart bidding exploration when you're going out of peak or in a low season is a really bad idea. &gt;&gt; It's a great point. And you know when smart bidding exploration I actually found the help center article the week before GML. I was like what the heck is this? And then they talked about a GML and I had a really hard time wrapping my head around how is this different from
[2666s]
just lowering your target rorowaz. And so you mentioned it here and I feel like I understand it better now. So I just want to put a fine point on that because it's such a nuance. So first of all, smart bending exploration only for search only for target rorowaz at least for now. So like if you have a search campaign on target rorowaz then you could even start doing it. And what you said that I just want to highlight it's a really great way to think about it is if you lower your rorowaz target that lowers your rorowaz across everything Google is currently doing for you and can affect your performance on everything. Whereas if you keep your
[2696s]
rorowaz target where it is, turn on smart bidding exploration to a lower rorowaz, then Google just keeps you doing what you're doing that's working well and then just in this exploration part test new stuff which could work well, which could work terribly without impacting this stuff at all. Uh, and so that &gt;&gt; I see it's a it's such a nuance like try explaining that to a small business owner [laughter] &gt;&gt; because I was the same with everybody else when I was like how is this different from lowering the target and
[2726s]
and and somebody explained it to me and like well this is how it works. That nuance is just so important to understand with smart bidding exploration because the way a lot of people will use it is they'll just enable it and say hey this is exploring &gt;&gt; and then over time they'll see their like if they put on 20% exploration then their 500% ROS will go down to 400% and over time they will start increasing that ROS target to 600% to 750 and oh now we hit the smart B just not hitting
[2758s]
my ROS target that's not how it works. So, and we [clears throat] have a lot of history on people using seasonal bit adjustments or maximum CPCs like this uh where they just they override the system too much and the same thing here. But understanding the nuance and using it at specific times uh when I talked to Google uh Google like the product uh product managers for smart bidding exploration in Google when we're [clears throat] at Mountain View, they all said don't don't keep it on forever. That's not it's not intended to keep like be an always on thing because then
[2789s]
it it basically doesn't do much. You want like you want to turn it on and off because I I was like why not just keep it on all the time but they were like no it's then it does then the algorithm doesn't work the way you want it to and stuff like just like enable it once in a while and it'll be more impactful. That also brings me down to like some of my one of my core issues with broad match and search terms and all that. Sometimes there are no more searches to get at. That's that's just a fact. Like if if if
[2820s]
people are searching for Google Ads agency, then we have Google Ads agency, we have Google Ads Consultant, we have Google Ads Management, Google Ads Optimizes, blah. We have five keywords or something like that that people can search for. That's why they're $100 per click. And the same thing with lawyers. Like it's just there aren't that many things to search for. And smart bidding exploration, broad match, etc. cannot find you more searches if you're already targeting the right searches. But having the right tools like the search terms report like the smart like knowing like how many unique search categories you
[2851s]
get when you do these things is all tools we can use to actually see do we get net new or we just doing the same thing we've always done. &gt;&gt; It's such a great point. I was on a coaching call last week with a new client and agency and it was so interesting because we were looking through the accounts and they're saying this client really wants to grow. They were on a maximize I think it was maximize clicks when maximize conversions and they're like we want to grow and when we increase the budget we just have higher CPCs with no more conversions but you know we need to grow and I was like well what's the search
[2881s]
impression share we added the search impression share column it was 90% search impression share for nonbrand search and so I was like look this is why like max clicks max conversions target CPA it doesn't even matter what bid strategy you use you have 90% impression share like there you have reached all the people searching like there are real people in the real world who are typing things into Google and you're reaching them all &gt;&gt; and you're reaching every variation of them with all your variants of hidden search terms and it's like you've covered the opportunity there is no money to spend here you've saturated the
[2912s]
pie and then we talked about what do you then do right if you've saturated the pie and then it's like okay you need to find a new pie a new pot to a new oven to put your pie I don't know I'll stop with the analogy there or you need to like expand into demand genen or something reach people before they're searching. Use custom segments, but like there's only so many searches to be had and at a certain point trying to spend more and more and more money in the same place. Yeah, you just drive up your CPCs. I and I assume there's a lot of consultants listening to this like like
[2942s]
freelancers and stuff and and I've I I speak I speak with a lot of them and and I get the like sometimes I get the question, what am I supposed to do in this situation? Well, we're hitting everything. That's what you're supposed to explain to your client. Like like that's knowledge. You knowing that you can't do anymore and telling them they need to go on a different channel or a different campaign type. Uh I don't think demand gen works for 99% of people, but that's another thing. But I like [laughter] but it's just the whole thing like just
[2973s]
sometimes you like just know that you've tapped out and know that there's no more you can do here. Then we can go off to offplatform optimizations or [snorts] just be happy. Like we sometimes in Savage say tell clients like hey we are at the top of the we cannot get any more out here. So either you need to get more categories, you need more products, more brands in there or we just go into maintenance mode six months, 9 months a year on our fee, then our fee is lower. We'll keep it at a maintenance maintenance level and then when you guys are ready to grow again, then let's do
[3003s]
it. Then all of a sudden Google will throw smart bidding exploration AI max and all this stuff ahead and then like okay now we need to start doing some things again. But like as a consultant, being able to explain to the advertiser what is actually going on is such an underrated skill today because most people can't do it. It's just Do you do you agree that there's a learning period with smart bidding? &gt;&gt; That smart bidding has a learning period. No, I think that's BS on Google. &gt;&gt; I agree. I agree. I agree. It's an old thing. It's an old thing. It's a meta
[3033s]
thing. It's &gt;&gt; always learning. &gt;&gt; There's there's no such thing. So like like I can't tell you how many agencies, how many freelancers will just say like well it's in learning mode. We can't change it. We don't need to do anything. Like no like explain what's happening. Explain what's going on. Explain why smart bidding is bidding higher. Explain why it's spinning lower. &gt;&gt; Do things explain how many sources are available. Explain seasonality. Explain. I think this is why it's something I say to a lot of my um I coach quite a few
[3063s]
agencies and freelancers as well and often I say you know agencies don't lose clients because of Google Ads performance. Agencies lose clients because of poor communication. And that's why you can have certain agencies that like don't know what the f they're doing, but they're very proactive with the client and they'll suggest new things and they'll communicate well and they respond in a time and they're professional to work with and they keep that client for a long time. And then you can have another agency who like does the best work and is super innovative and all this stuff, but
[3093s]
doesn't explain it well, forwards, you know, a 10page Looker Studio dashboard with a million numbers, doesn't respond to emails quickly, whatever, and they'll lose the client. And I I think people wish that weren't true, but I've seen it so many times, I mean, when I worked at Google and since working at Google, that like the agencies who keep their clients are not necessarily the ones with the best Google ad skills, it's the ones with the best communication skills. And so if you have the Google ad skills and the communication skills, then like you're printing money. You're not
[3123s]
worrying about, you know, your agency business right now. But I think that's counterintuitive for a lot of people. &gt;&gt; I have so so I I used to I I founded a a big agency. We're 150 people, 80 in PBC or 70, 60 something and 20 in SEO or something like that. So you know me, I'm I'm a product person. I know Google ads really really well. And we had like eight different teams, eight different team leads. And it was funny to see how they were different. So some are really really like product. They're good at the
[3154s]
product. They were good at Google ads and they generally do a good job. Then maybe communication was not that good. And then there was the people who really bad at Google ads like surprisingly bad when I looked at I was like embarrassed. Um but their communication skills were super high. They like those people would have clients write me and say, "You guys tried your best. Google Ads is not for me." And then I looked at the account and I was like [laughter] this that's not that's not why this is Google can't work for you. You just need to get somebody who actually knows what they're doing here. And that's again
[3184s]
that's a problem with big agencies. But I I see the same thing like just in general like if you're really good at what we do just you need to be good at explaining it like like it it has to come in there. Uh but I I do think that there's too many like there's too many bad agencies out there today. Uh there always have been like ever since we sold click packages 10 years ago or 15 years ago like there always has been. So there's nothing new there but
[3214s]
&gt;&gt; and that's every industry right? &gt;&gt; Yeah it's every industry. Plumbers also suck. Lawyers also suck. My lawyer the other day didn't send something to the court even though we asked him have you sent. So there's people everywhere. That's horrible &gt;&gt; everywhere. Okay. Before I let you go over there to Andrew we haven't explicitly talked about AI Max yet. So, have you tested AIAX for search campaigns? Any thoughts to share? What do you think? &gt;&gt; So, my thinking on AIAX goes back and forth a bit. So, I I on the surface I
[3245s]
think it's just dynamic search ads on steroids and that's what it is. Um, but it is unless you use broad match, it is the only way to get into AI mode and AI overview ads and it's been explicitly stated in the release documents in documentation and by Google. So that's not me guessing. It is just what it is. So outside of running broad match, you have to run AIAX. I have a for from an e-commerce perspective, that's where I give it the most thought. I fundamentally don't like
[3275s]
dynamic search ads or in this case a max in my existing campaigns because it means that an a landing page for Adidas running shoes can target Adidas. It can target running shoes. It can target shoes for whatever. It can target different keywords I don't want want it to target. So if I only focus on let's say branded keywords Adidas, Nike, etc., etc., and I've paused my other keywords because they don't work for me, then all of a sudden AMX or the search ads can start spending for it. So
[3306s]
all of a sudden, I'm starting to go like, ah, this is not this is not what I want. So, I am I am I go really back and forth on it whether or not I think it's a good idea or not. Uh, fundamentally I don't have a big problem with it, but let me just see. I have I'm not remembering my thoughts right now. I had some thoughts. I'm just pulling them up right now. &gt;&gt; Yeah, while you're collecting your thoughts, I'll share a bit of my thoughts. I agree with you. I think for e-commerce advertisers, like you already
[3337s]
do keyword list targeting. That's shopping. Shopping is keyword lists. And in a way like shopping is final URL expansion sort of like you have all your different products that you want in your feed and there's no specific keywords there. Google figures it out from your feed and and then the assets like is the shopping ad generated for I don't know if they're kind of already there. I see a lot more utility for lead genen advertisers or B2B advertisers because AI Max is going to flex into these other searches that you may not have otherwise. Um but it's interesting. It's
[3367s]
like the keywordless targeting is stage one. And then if you turn on keywordless targeting, you have the option for automatically created assets. And if you turn on automatically created assets, you also have the option for fond URL expansion. So the couple of coaching clients I've seen who've used it, they like it. They say it pulls it like it's not pulling in anything surprising search term wise. It's like, oh, competitor terms, oh, single word keywords, you know. Um, but from the few clients I've seen who testing it, it's stuff they wouldn't have advertised on anywise. It's bringing enough
[3398s]
conversions at a good enough cost that they're willing to keep it on. Is it going to be perfect for everyone? No. Uh, but just like you were saying with Smart Bending Exploration earlier, I know it's one more opportunity. If you're maxed out and you want to expand and you want to grow, it's a tool to do &gt;&gt; So now I remember my thoughts and I agree I agree with everything you just said. I think the the the biggest thoughts around so a a max most of us is going to have to enable it in search in order to get into the AI mode and AI
[3429s]
over your ad. So with that being said I don't think we get out of it outside if you do broad match which that's a discussion of itself but I I think you don't get out of using AIAX I my overall thing I think the the text gen the the the new text assets I don't think that that's I don't think that's wise to enable yet. So, I think that's a setting, that's a feature to remove. Unless you don't touch your accounts a lot. If you never touch and optimize your ads, then just adding any new assets will be a good idea. And the way the responsive search ads work and
[3459s]
everything, you're most likely not going to have a super bad experience. And again, if you are the kind of brand or kind of business that could get really hurt with writing the wrong thing, you're not supposed to enable it anyways and you're supposed to be much more on top of it. But if you're a little a little plumber in Boisee, Idaho, or if you are some kind of DDC brand, nobody cares if it's for a couple of impressions wrote something completely idiotic. Um, if it doesn't work, if doesn't get a CTR, if it doesn't
[3489s]
convert, then it it will go down the ranks and will not be shown. &gt;&gt; So, I don't think that's a that's a huge thing. I just don't think it's a net positive. If you're actively managing your account and writing new ads today, I think it's it's it's too much of a I just don't think it'll be a net positive. Then there's the whole URL inclusion versus or URL exclusion. If you're not using dynamic search ads today, then I do think it's a like having URL inclusion like like expanding the URLs is a really good idea because most e-commerce stores and most people in general are not using their entire
[3520s]
website when they're advertising. That's also why a lot of people that I saw when PMAX first came out they said wow now I'm getting 10% 20% 30% more conversions and when went in and looked it was like okay it was search it's not branded search let's just take that out of here but it was just search it was like when we enable dynamic search ads it does do like 10 20 30% more volume and it's just what it does so that's a net good thing then there's the whole messing with my campaign structure I really don't like it I think it's
[3550s]
going to a necessary evil though. I don't I think we're going to have to rethink how we do campaign structure, how we think about some of these things in the future to enable AI max and full exploration because where I think that it's not there today with the way that it writes assets and headlines for us, there's no reason why it shouldn't be able to write like customize a headline for somebody like me searching for uh running shoes with people with plantto
[3580s]
fascitis and who needs art support. There's no reason why it can't after I've given it all that context in the AI mode that it can't specifically write that ad instead of me having an ad that says cheap running shoes or whatever stupid super stupid super stupid super stupid super stupid general thing. So I I think we're not like with a lot of AI we're not quite there yet but we're getting there and the second we get there then the performance will be so nice. Uh so I think we have to rethink campaign structure. We're going to spend a little
[3610s]
bit of time here in in this year thinking about how we're going to restructure for AI max is still very early, but the early signs we see are also &gt;&gt; they're also decent. Again, nothing surprising. A little bit like broad match 10% more, 5% more. Nothing like huge if your account is running well, but I would say this one this is one to &gt;&gt; this is one one that I would say most people should probably enable it, &gt;&gt; test it at least. Yeah. Yeah. Well, that went by very quickly on my end and I
[3640s]
feel like we've disappointed the people because we mostly agree here, Andrew. But maybe that's also just a sign of how the industry is evolving and you know what I mean. There are many different ways to get good results from Google Ads. But I think the core principles of feeding it the right data, testing new things, not having a one-sizefits-all approach, understanding the business and the offer and the landing page are just as important as what we do in the count. And what I think most importantly, just trying to work with the system rather than trying to fight against the system.
[3670s]
You will lose. It's Google. So just figure out how to make it work for you. And uh and we can all prosper together. Thank you so much, Andrew, for joining me. Thank you everyone who has tuned in live and who is watching the replay. If you would like to hear more from Andrew or I, I have linked below this video both of our LinkedIn pages as well as both of our YouTube channels. Have a great weekend, Andrew. Thank you. &gt;&gt; Yes, sir. Thank you.