[0s]
I've seen somebody claim that they go from 6,000 to 400,000 in monthly revenue over a 9month period. All I had to get to figure out how they did it was to comment on their LinkedIn. So, I commented and let's check it out and see where they went wrong, how I rate the different tactics, and why I think they're lying. So, here's the case. We It's basically just going from a DC brand going from 6 to 400,000 revenue. We can see here that it's very few conversions. The cost is 54. Yeah. There's some things that
[30s]
that's wrong in terms of the measurements that we have in here and what they're showing in the charts, but we'll go into more details about that. First, let's talk overall. They say that well any of these tactics work for everyone. I like it. I like that they mention it. I like that they don't just try to claim this is the end all be all of all tactics. So, they get a an A+ for me there. So, let's try to go through the four key highlights and the four tactics that they actually used and let me rate them. So, product focus and segmentation. Overall, I like product segmentation. That's awesome. So, let's try to see how they actually did it.
[60s]
They're saying that if you lump it all together, Google will overspend on flashy but low returns. That can be a thing if you don't have a lot of data, but other than that, it's not usually that big of a deal. That's not why you segment out products. So, they say that they split into different ad groups, but I have on good authority because I've already read the case that they use Pmax. There's no ad groups in Pmax. There's asset groups. And what they're saying here is that later here they say that they wanted to change the targets on the ad group level. Already they are
[90s]
color me skeptical because you can't do this. Let's just say they're running standard shopping and they set different targets for different ad groups. I don't like that. It's it's setting too many limitations on smart bidding. This group needs to set 700. This needs to hit 300. But overall you're allowed to hit 500. It it's if you have a very little data and you start doing this, it's difficult to to do and it doesn't usually work. Then they say, as we scale above 5,000 in ad spend, they started breaking top performing categories into separate campaigns. That's a no-go. It's not a
[121s]
smart idea. There's simply just not enough data to do this. The only way you can start splitting up campaigns at 5,000 spend is if you remove products from your best performing campaign, this is a jewelry business. Let's say that all your bracelets or top five bracelets convert horribly, gets all the clicks. removing those from the main campaign is a good idea that you can call that segmenting it out because you want to put them in another campaign where you can control what the target is manual CPC maybe and stuff like that but just starting to break it up when you're only
[151s]
spending 5,000 a month is a bad idea you simply just don't have enough data I like doing segmentation anybody who follow me know that that's one of the core things is to split up for goodness sake but not until you get over what I call 300 conversions a month and these guys had 395 conversions In total, they changed the add to cart conversions at one point in time. So, you can see conversions going up. But still, with this number, they still only show 3.95 in terms of conversions. This overall segmentation used in this particular case, I will give it a 1 out of 10
[182s]
because they can't do what they're saying they're doing. It's it's an impossibility. Then, title optimization equals SER domination. I just should get a one out of 10 just for the SER domination thing. This is a marketing ploy, so I'll I'll give it to them. Overall, optimizing titles makes a lot of sense. The way that they say it is a little bit aggressive and gimmicky. Like I don't understand this. Uh they play in a niche where people don't always search directly for what they sell. Is this like engagement rings? Then people search for engagement rings. But I like if this is jewelry, I have a tough time
[212s]
seeing what high AOV product isn't searched for in jewelry. They meant they couldn't rely on brand term wins or default queries. A what is a default query? Is that just normal keywords like engagement ring? Nah. If you even just say that like you normally do where you wanted to rely on brand term wins, you're getting an F for me already there. That's just difficult to do. So they analyze actual search terms, group intent and rewrote titles to frontload key modifiers. So a frontloading key
[242s]
modifier is like saying this is like a narrow notebook. Rewriting titles to frontload key modifiers makes perfect sense. And I also want to say that if this is a case where the titles on the site are horrible like in this case where that I had at one point in time where the product title was just census then adding keywords to it just absolutely blew the performance out of the water. So great thing good thing to rewrite titles good idea to frontload key modifiers strip underperforming titles inject keywords test across different product types crosspollinate insights. I'll say this I like it
[273s]
overall. I like what they did. I like the way that they've structured it. I like the the product and title optimization. It's it's something that I think that not enough people do a lot of. So for me, this makes a lot of sense. Rating 9 out of 10. Optimizing for add to cart to unlock the algorithm. So I like this. They high AOV, long delays of purchase, low conversion volume. Let's get add to cardart conversions in there. Makes a lot a lot of sense. I like all this. This is great when you're actually analyzing these
[303s]
things. But the problem I have here is show me show me you did the analysis. This is what's the valuable part of this guide. Just saying you switched to add toart conversions is not actually useful. Show me how you calculated this because this is where most people will get it wrong. They'll just switch over to add to cart conversions sometimes without any conversion value. That's a major mistake right there. or without any uh without actually modifying the conversion value because what you want to do is you want to try to calculate what is the relationship from add to
[335s]
cart to purchase. So if it takes five add to carts to result in one conversion or one purchase, then you want to reduce the value of the add to cart conversion by 5x, meaning 20% of what an actual add to cart value is because when you then switch back over to purchase and later stage, then it becomes a lot easier to actually work with it. For this particular case, this particular tactic, 7 out of 10. I like it. I would have liked to have more explanation for how you actually did it, but I like it. And now product ID focus. So what they're basically doing here is that they had
[366s]
five different variants. It's funny there's only five variants but that's another thing. Um it got split out. So spend was fragmented as they say conversions were scattered and learning was slower across the board. So they removed all the variance and went down to just one product which I really really like. Normally narrowing in variance when you are already scaled have a scaled Google ads account is a bad idea. is usually not a way to do better at a later stage. But at this point in time where we don't have a lot of data there, it is scattered across
[396s]
the board. Google doesn't have data on what works and what doesn't work. This is a perfect use case of this particular tactic. So, I like it and I can see why this would have worked for them. I don't like it as a general recommendation. I don't like that they're saying that you should start by excluding a few. I think you're just eating away and you can't really figure out when did you actually make a change. But for this particular case, few conversions, a lot of variance per per product. Let's focus down on just one product and get it more put in. Now, if we then start going over to saying, okay, what was the monthto-month
[427s]
breakdown? So, I pulled in all the numbers and nice chart up here. The big thing that I wanted to highlight here is that there's missing a correlation between the spend, the track Google Ads revenue, and the total revenue. This is where I start having questions about everything that that that was going on. They're saying Google Ads revenue was the highest ever in November and December and they're saying that it was 1.6 million. This is not 1.6 million. Again, maybe the chart up here, maybe this looks at the add to cart values and
[458s]
stuff like that. So, when they actually switch those away, like you can see it goes down to zero here. There's nothing in this chart that looks the same as the chart with the numbers that they actually pulled in. So, that's one issue. The other one is the correlation with Google Ads revenue and total revenue. And this is where a lot of advertisers go wrong when they're trying to analyze the results because they'll sit and say, "Well, Google Ads is driving some sort of impact on our total revenue." In order to verify that, you need to make sure that the relationship between Google Ads revenue and the total
[488s]
revenue is there. In this case, we're seeing that the rows in Google Ads is one and then it's 18 and here is 40 and here's 50. Basically the same thing. Then in October, Google ads row goes down to 5x. Blended is up at 50. There's no correlation. And again, we go back and down here. So 54 to 7, 3.5 to 3 to to 37, 2.5 to 42, 10 to 50. You can see where the Google ads row is, which is where we can see what the spend and the revenue is. There's no correlation. If
[518s]
this one is, let's just say 5 to 48, that's a that's a 10x, then the next one should also be 10x. The next one should be 10x because you should have an impact. And yes, there's going to be a difference in impact depending on how much marketing spend goes into one channel versus another channel, etc., etc. But overall, this isn't this doesn't make any sense here. When we start saying, okay, we go from 3 to 37, 10 to 78, but the total revenue isn't changing. And all of a sudden, there's some magical doubling of the revenue. And they're saying around this time down
[548s]
in March, they're also saying that um in February, the client's other channel also began underperforming. Google started taking over. So at the same time as as the other channel starts underperforming, Google starts overperforming. I can kind of see that. That explains the last part here. I just have no trust whatsoever that this switch makes any sense whatsoever. How can you go from 200,000 or basically 5,000 originally up to 400,000 by doing
[579s]
this? And this is what I mean. I think that either all this case is a complete lie using good tactics, but the overall numbers and everything is just made up to make it sound more impressive or there's another channel and other other factors in here that we're not getting told. And I would love to see those other factors because three out of these four gets an like a seven or eight out of 10 rating in terms of tactic from me and used properly. I like it. The fact that this is made up makes me worried. And the fact that these numbers down here makes very very little sense. It
[609s]
just means we're missing some further explanation. We're just getting the numbers and then on blind faith, we need to trust that that this is correct and that Google has started taking over. There is nothing in the underlying data here that shows that we should be able to produce these kind of numbers. So overall, I like this. I like a lot of the tactics that were suggested in this guide. However, I don't think that you should trust anything in terms of the numbers that were put in here. Last thing is when you look at it, this conversion value number does not align
[640s]
with this conversion value number. I don't trust it, but I like the tactics. What's your thoughts? Did you like it? Is there something I'm missing? What did you catch when you looked at it? I hope you like this video. Comment if you want to see more of these. If you're into practical PPC insights that you can actually help you, then subscribe. I share tips, breakdowns, and call out what's working and what's not. No fluff, just the stuff that you can use every single week.