[0s]
If managing product variance feels like whack-a-ole, then you're not alone. Sizes, colors, materials, configurations, it all gets messy fast, and you're probably asking yourself, should you reduce the number of varants in your shopping fe? The answer is not as simple as you might think. On the surface, it's a definite yes. It simplifies the data for smart fitting and it makes it easier to analyze product performance. But I've been surprised often enough when reducing variance that the answer isn't that simple. So today, we'll walk through three things. what product variants are
[30s]
and why they matter, when it makes sense to produce them, and most importantly, when you shouldn't mess with them. So, let's get into it. A product variant is just a version of a product. Think different colors, sizes, styles, or configurations. And the issue is that with just a basic example, a t-shirt that comes in 10 colors and six sizes. That's 60 variants of one product. And you see this all the time in fashion is different colors and sizes. In jewelry is different sizes, different materials. for eyewear different lens strength
[60s]
furniture you have different colors but you also have different configurations right hand left hand all these things electronics you have storage capacity color options price options all this is everywhere and if you don't manage them right then they can mess with your performance in a big way this is what I call the variant dilemma here's the deal too many variants equal is bad and too few variants is also bad let me first show you what I mean and let me just explain it in this sheet. So here I've just basically just pulled out the data
[90s]
so we can much more easily play with it. Let's try to take cost up above uh 500 just so we get some something in there. We have all the item group IDs over here and then we have cost and then rowers. And now I've just limited it. But let's try to go down. We say okay these two these are the same item group ID. They're both over rowers. That's great. And let's try to go down down down. Okay, these two also run the same rows. That's not a problem. And then we start coming down to here. Okay, so we have two products almost the same amount of
[122s]
of cost of a little bit more than one, but one has 800% ROS, the other has zero. What do you do there when you try to figure out what the performance is? Which one do you go by? You should obviously aggregate it, but how useful is that actually? And then let's try to go down. Let's try to go down. All of this is all all nice. All good. All clean. Uh 43. Here we have overall performance is high but with one variant that has a low ROS it would be falling into another campaign if we try to do
[153s]
that. Here again we have two 50% performance difference. So again is this a massive issue for most accounts? Most likely not. And that's why I keep going back to saying usually when you work with product variance it's not as big of a deal as you try to make it out to be. The problem with too many variants is the smart bidding can get confused. That's what we totally talked about before. The data is scattered across 50 SKs instead of focusing on one or two. The second thing is that it's a nightmare to analyze like I just showed. Spend jumps around. One day is on large red t-shirt, the next day is on the blue
[183s]
medium. And the third thing is that campaign management can get cluttered. SKs can jump from one campaign to another, especially when you use these performance groupings because like I showed you before, some products or some variants can have high performance, other low performance, and it's all just random. The problem with going too far in the other direction where you have too few variants is that I see it again and again and again. Number one thing is that you lose shopping ad coverage. Fewer varants equals to fewer chances to show and you can get screwed by out of stock issues. If you're only advertising
[213s]
for the black size uh large t-shirt and it goes out of stock even though all other sizes are available then Google will not show anything and that's not nice. So how do you fix this? There's two ways and the simple thing whenever you work with product variants, this is not rocket science, you add the item group ID to group similar variants together. It shows Google that this is what you're supposed to do. The second more advanced fix is to reduce the number of variants that you actually send to Google. But let's try to break it down. First and foremost, when should you reduce variance? My general thinking
[245s]
is that you should not you don't need to panic over every single product with a few variants. Smart bidding knows how to work with it. Especially if you have your item group ID with it. But if you're working with more than 15 variants per product, that's when problems start stacking up. And honestly, my biggest issue with it is that analyzing performance becomes a black hole. It goes up and down and I can't follow. What if traffic goes down with one product and I compare year-over-year has it just jumped to another variant? All that then it starts becoming an issue. Here's how to approach it. You want to try to find a
[277s]
common denominator. you want to keep all the meaningful variants. So if it's like, okay, I want to keep all the colors of a product or I want to keep the same like different material variants and stuff like that, things that people actually search for and filter for. And in this case, you could probably remove sizes. You want to try to see top performers. it's hard to actually work into dduplicating your products, but keeping your top performers means that if your top performers are varants in the extra large or XXL, then going in and saying, "Okay, now we're only showing small,
[307s]
medium, and large." That's not a good thing or only show medium. Whatever you do with all this, monitor results. This is really one of those test and learn plays and not a set and forget move. So, how to actually reduce variance? First and foremost, audit your current performance. Find out which variants are actually selling or getting clicks. Then from there, identify the top performers and try to find some common trades. Maybe it's 80% of the sales are coming from medium sizes or you can put it all back into one version and then you create a reduction plan. You need to
[338s]
dduplicate the the variance in your favorite feed tool. The most important thing in step number five is that you want to make sure you have backup rules for availability. I'm not going to go into details here because I tried to do it and the the test subject I had that we went through this. They just got confused because that's not my tool, etc. I'll gladly do a unique video on just showing how to do this. But the whole thing here is that if your selected variant that you that you're keeping, so let's say you're keeping the medium size and that goes out of stock,
[368s]
then another can automatically take over. It's very important we don't try to force everything to be in stock. I used to do that. it just then caused issues because when Google lands on the product page being out of stock and I say it's in stock then it'll just disapprove it. So you want to have a backup rule to make sure that just because the one variant you include goes out of stock then it doesn't mean that the product entitle can't be shown and again this is where all the all the complexity starts adding up when we start working with product variants and
[398s]
why I'd say it's not just let's just reduce six thing is if you got a big catalog test for goodness sakes test this on 20% of products first because you can monitor performance if traffic drops and you'll see it immediately then you want to revert it but again if traffic holds steady then that's what you're trying to do and you want to roll it out wider because if your traffic stays the same that's the goal. You don't want to obsess over conversion rates on rowers during testing because it will not have that big of an impact on smart biddings algorithms initially and also this is also for you to analyze
[428s]
better. Don't watch impression share per se because it can be tough to analyze across the different products and stuff like that. So don't worry about this. The goal is if traffic stays the same because we can track that really really easily then that's the goal. So again go back to the final question. Should you reduce variance? Probably not. I've seen it hurt way more times than I've seen it be impactful. Actually, the only cases where we've done it with a definite good result has been with products like bras with colors and sizes into 100 200 variants or when variants aren't
[460s]
important. We have a client where they simply just don't have sizes natively on their product pages. So, we don't have to send in sizes and it's really really nice. But honestly, it's rarely it's been worth the effort. So, that's a myth I'd like to bust. Limiting variants don't do much for performance in my opinion. So, to wrap it all up, I've been ending these videos with a quick recap, but YouTube punishes retention drops or if you don't watch half the video and stuff like that. So, let me know in the comments if you like this format I'm going to show you in a second or not. If nobody says anything, I'll
[490s]
probably cut this part in future videos. Anyway, the key takeaways from today is one, product variance can kill performance by scattering your data. Two, you should always use item group IDs to group similar variants. Three, if you've got more than 15 variants, then it's probably time to start reducing, but not if it's not a problem. Four, focus on variants that matter, color, material, and overall top performers. And five, always, always, always monitor and be ready to revert if performance drops. You're thinking about what to do
[520s]
next. Review your product feed. Try to find products with 15 plus variants. Make sure you have item group IDs whenever appropriate. Pick a small batch to test and try to document the current performance. That way you can figure out whether or not this is actually working. So always be testing, always be learning when it comes to this. Thank you. Drop a comment in below if you like the takeaway section. Otherwise, I will drop it in the future. If you're into practical PBC insights that you can actually help you, then subscribe. I share tips, breakdowns, and call out what's working and what's not. No fluff,
[551s]
just the stuff that you you can use every single