[0s]
We all love these LinkedIn comments get post or at least that's what it seems when thousands of people are commenting and liking in order to get a strategy. Let's go through another one and see what I actually think about the structure. Let's see what the suggestions are. Let's see where things are. So, let's jump into it. It's just me riffing on a strategy. There's nothing mean to it. There's nothing to it. This is my opinion and there's not no ill intentions uh met at all. But I have removed all naming just
[31s]
so make sure nobody feels hurt when I do these things. So let me start off by saying that the second I see something saying I've audited over 500 Google ad accounts then I think something's wrong. Nobody's audited 500 accounts. I have but it's over 15 years. What I audited 15 years ago, even 10 years, maybe even five years ago have no merit today. So again, no this is a marketing ploy, but I just get annoyed when I see things like that. Here's where it starts wrong in my opinion.
[62s]
Branded search, branded shopping. Okay, cool. Prospecting search, prospecting shopping. I have a fundamental issue with calling campaigns for prospecting search and prospecting shopping when they didn't say branded shopping. If you do something that's super broad with broad match or for search or shopping, go something super broad or feeder campaign and you kind of call it prospecting. I can kind of I can kind of get my head around that even though I don't like it. But saying you have a campaign that's called prospecting and then you have prospecting search indicates to me that you're looking at branded search as something that is a
[93s]
part of your funnel when it's not. It's just you have to be there. You have to defend the position especially in some industries. It's really really important that you do but at the end of the day it's a defense play. It's not part of your funnel. And it completely misunderstands the funnel because the bottom funnel is very very important but that's not something that you technically do with branded search. It's just a brand defense. So that's my first thing where I just go me I don't like that. If we start with the branded search how to structure maximum control minimum
[123s]
waste blah blah blah precision is key. Many brands waste budget but use the wrong match types. I agree. Broad targeting I agree. Messy campaign search 100% agree. Exact framework we use. I like it. Always erase run branded search and separate campaign. Love it. Do not mix brand and nonbrand. That's a given but I agree. Clear labeling. 100% agree. uh use target impression share for your bidding strategy. I don't like target impression share. I I I can kind of get my head around using it if you also use a maximum bid that's really really low. Otherwise, in my opinion, it does the
[154s]
same thing as smart bing does. It over bids, especially if you put a too high impression share, which people like. I like that they put in a 90% impression. I agree with that. There's no need to do anything more than that. Use manual CPC want to keep tight controls early stage hybrid organic dominance. pro if competitors bidding for your brand lean towards more targeting pressure toward those key traffic. So I fundamentally don't agree on that. I think that if you have a lot of bidding and for your brain term and it's something where when you lower your bids you're going to lose clicks and traffic and conversions then
[185s]
I would say run an experiment. It's the only way to actually AB test how much you're losing. Looking at impression share can be a difficult thing to look at. If I were you try to run an experiment. It's what we do in Savvy and it works really really well. Keyword strategy exact match first. I agree. Phrase match, I just do the same. I can't see why it's the difference. Monitor phrase, convert any high performing into exact match. It makes no difference whatsoever to do that. There's no need to do that. So, I just I think that's that's unnecessary to do. And I I like that they say don't use broad match. I completely and utterly uh
[216s]
agree. Landing page strategy. Now, we're starting to over complicate it. Like in in my opinion, homepage is is typically the best 90% of cases as it's usually the most optimized page. you also don't know what people are actually getting into your website for. I feel that they proposed this strategy just it's just an overly complicated uh strategy. I think makes makes little sense. Then on the the ad copy side like I like it. It's it's nice and simple. So official store is is nice and simple. Protect trust. I like that. Adding social proof some
[246s]
offers some key benefits. Overall I like it. I agree with the overall sentiment towards doing all this. It works. Extensions. They need to have it in here. Uh I like the like I like the detail that they go into this branding campaign. I must say um I like all of this. It's it's the right thing to do across the board. So key metrics and benchmarks target impression share. Yeah, I can agree with that. I do think that it's very important to look at clicks and not just look at it look at from a target impression share perspective because if your conversion if your ROS is low then that makes no sense. He does also say or they also say
[276s]
that ROS is typically very high. I agree 100%. Segment reporting. I agree. Seeing that it's a different campaign, you don't have to actively segment it out, but when you report it, always segment it out. I agree 100%. CCR, I like to have have it in there. I haven't really looked at it in a long time. Conversion rate is overly complicated. No need to look at it. So, overall, like I I I like it. Like the approach to branded search here is sound. I think it's slightly over complicates what should be a very straightforward campaign type, but uh nine out of 10. Then there's branded shopping. Protect
[307s]
your brain space. Maximize shopping conversions. Branded shopping campaigns are smart lever when used intentionally. The goal isn't to inflate performance, but to capture control brand demand in one of the most competitive search placements. I think it's a little bit that's a little bit much, but I I do agree. Campaign priority and structuring priority always run dedicated. I agree. Set low priority. This allows branded queries to flow the campaign. That's correct. Product selection start with five to 10 uh bestsellers. Uh I can kind of get the idea behind it. I typically disagree with limiting to only 5% bests
[337s]
sellers. does mean you have to keep it up. Uh especially if you're in fashion, you have to keep it up to what's the best sellers in this particular time. Otherwise, you might be showing shorts when it is winter. If you have a dynamic way to do it, this might be a very good way to do it. In my opinion, I've never really seen it be a huge problem. We haven't seen a huge performance increase on conversions when we do this. It seems to just work out, which which makes a lot of sense. Product titles include brand name and I started product titles. So, I disagree here. A, I don't see the purpose. And B, I think that it is a bad
[368s]
idea because you can't only add product titles for this campaign. They write for this campaign. That's fundamentally wrong. You can't just do it for one campaign. It's a product. So, unless you create duplicate products and create different titles for that, which again is overly complicated to do for a brand shopping campaign standpoint, I just think this part is completely ridiculous. It makes no sense. Reinforces brand identity visually. That's not true. There's no need to do that. Keyword management. You can't do keyword management. So, it's negative keyword management. Use a branded shopping script to exclude non-branded queries. Okay, so this is a very typical
[398s]
thing I see and I see a lot of especially in-house people do this uh where they take their script and it's a problem with the campaign structure. It indicates there's an there's a fundamental issue with the way that you've set it up. When non-branded terms appear in your branded shopping, it's typically because of one or two reasons. Either your bids are way too high in your branded campaigns, or B, the products in your branded campaigns aren't in the non-branded campaigns. And when that happens, the campaign structure with priorities doesn't work. So without a proper set, like if you do a proper setup, you don't you shouldn't
[429s]
need scripts. We run multi-million dollar campaigns without them. So it is not and it is not possible. The only place I've seen this actually be a problem is with Pmax because it seems that the relationship between standard shopping and PMAX have somehow created some issues with uh with with the campaign priorities and it's completely water it out. If you do pmax, I I have kind of seen it. If your bids start being high enough in your branded shopping campaign and low enough in your pax campaign, then I have noticed the issue as well. But at that case, you
[460s]
shouldn't use a script. You should do something else because using the script is just it doesn't work. It's playing whack-a-ole and you're going to end up just having way too many negative keywords and not really trusting the branded setup. Bidding strategy, use target ros uh new account. Start with manual CPC. works well if you have many products and you have competition. That's that's what it does well and that's also where why in in those cases that I've never had an issue with running all our products because target rowers help surface the best performing products and so bits higher for them versus others. So just adding all
[491s]
products has never really been an issue for me. However, if you have a high volume branded shopping then manual CPC can be more straightforward and much more effective. I typically don't like using target ROS on my brand shopping campaigns unless there's a big wholesale pre presence and my branded keyword basically becomes a midfunnel keyword and I'm competing with other wholesalers. I'm competing with competitors and stuff like that. Otherwise, careful with that. I would highly highly recommend that you set much higher target rows than suggested
[522s]
and they do say okay to put 500,000%. I would say this has to be something relative to the account uh and what kind of business you are. This is slightly overly simplifying the bidding, but it's okay. Audience layering completely unnecessary. Like, I'll just I'll just say it right now. This this is branded shopping and somebody searching for your brand. Just bid for it. There's no need to do anything with audiences. There's no need to do anything there. You're not going to bid differently for past purchases or retargeting or high value customer segments like you have a dollar bid or whatever it is and like a dollar or 78 cents is not going to make a
[553s]
difference. Your royals are so high and there shouldn't unless you're Nike. And again this is then then this is a different keyword then it's not a branded keyword then it's a bottom funnel or metfunnel keyword so I think this is completely unnecessary exclusions and account hygiene and exclude branded terms love it prevents love it love it that's very good key metrics I like it I like the complexity in all this and the reason why I mention I like the complexity and all these things they're mentioning here uh is because I'm going to take that over to when we talk about the other setups because so far branded shopping it's
[584s]
been good seven out of 10 I think there's some things here titles, product selection, that's a little bit meh, but overall this would do well. Prospecting search without saying that I don't like the word prospecting anymore. The real I agree the real growth opportunity is non-brand. That's where you're supposed to be spending most of your time. I agree with that. The relevance trinity query to ads page 100% agree. I've been saying this for 15 years. It's the most important thing that you need to do when you set it up. Then you don't need to spend time talking about quality score or anything
[614s]
like that. So I I generally I I like it. Query to match ad to landing page makes perfect sense. Campaign development journey start with manual CPC bidding. I fundamentally agree here. I I I get the theoretical reason to do this. Uh and maybe if you work with really small accounts then that then this can make sense. However, they do say and mention high spends and stuff like that and how you need to scale to 300,000 per month and like then that this is just wrong. You shouldn't start with manual bidding because it is so inefficient. uh and you
[645s]
usually don't get anything out of it. So starting out a maximize conversion value for search makes sense. That's where where I would start with careful budget and you can even start with target rows. I've done both and there's no issue with starting there especially if you use portfolios. I don't like that he says accept lower rows in your branding campaigns. It's it insinuates there's a relationship between the two even though they do say that you should split out report and everything. However, I don't like it. Add copy stand out. I like it. Highlight USPs. Use call to actions. Based on my testing, I don't think that call to actions are that important in
[675s]
e-commerce. Call fill out a demo. LA that starts making more sense and I've seen more success with that, but I work less in lead genen these days than than ever before. So, test mult tool speak directly to a search intent. Agree. Include specific benefits outcomes. Agree. Test multiple ad variations. I like it. Performance monitoring framework. I assume this is nothing to do with ads. Quality score. Can we start looking at quality score? I've not looked at quality score for many years. Never done anything specifically for it outside. If you do this, then you're doing well. Then there's no need to do anything more than this. So I I'll take
[706s]
that out. Ctr, yeah, I kind of get it. I I agree there. Search for check every 48 hours to add negative keywords. Heck no. A 48 hour negative keyword review is way too aggressive. Keywords need a lot more time to generate meaningful conversion data. Every 48 hours, you don't get conver you don't give conversion like any ability to actually do anything. and you're going to create an excessive negative keyword list that will without a doubt restrict campaign growth in there. So, I would also say negative keywords are less important for most
[736s]
campaigns today. Unless you're in a niche or B2B or low volume, then smart bidding can effectively manage keyword performance and negate the need to actually use negative keywords. And I know everybody's screaming at me, "No, Andrew, they can't. I get what you're saying and I overall agree, but I've just seen so many times removing negative keywords. We have a video on it and how it can actually generate more. So, this just reads to me, you're going to end up having way too many negative keywords in there. New customer rate. I like having it in there, but without saying if you don't say how to actually
[766s]
do it, then it then this is just a word and there's no way anybody who reads this will think that okay, I also need to add negative keywords every 48 hours and I need to check customer rate. Doesn't make sense. Implementation best practices. Create tightly themed ad groups. Don't dump 40 loosely. I like that. Can you give me an example? Landing page alignment. That's what we had before. Makes sense. Negative keyword discipline makes no sense. And that's it. And I don't like this. This is way too simple. There are so many things that you could talk about. For
[796s]
instance, there's no guidance on keyword selection like generic keyword versus product versus category versus feature versus brand. Again, if this is DDC, it's fine. But there's also use case keywords. So many different keywords out there and there's nowhere around the keyword selection here. Could do a campaign keyword development journey too where you say okay we start out with at least two words category keywords and longtail then we move into product specific and then we move into generic lacks a keyword organization framework. I would also say when we look at it it's missing overall campaign structure when
[827s]
it comes to scaling on brand like how do you actually scale it? I think when I look at it this is just way too simple compared to the amount of detail that went into when it came to brand search and brand shopping. This just seems way too little. I would have liked to have seen this to be two, three times longer or the other one to be half the size. Just it indicates to me something is wrong with the strategy that somebody's following here. Prospecting shopping prospecting search key shopping a visual showcase to new customers any customers. There are two approaches. Manual shopping campaign.
[858s]
It's not a manual shopping campaign. It's a standard shopping campaign. Performance max feed only focus on shopping. There's basically no difference between the two. Uh if you use a standard shopping and a Pmax feed only, basically no difference whatsoever. I like that at least they don't go in and say and suggest a full PMX campaign. I like that. Other than that, there's pretty much no difference between these two setups, meaning except that you have a little bit less uh controls here. And in Pmax, you have some other things like maximize conversion value and other things you can't access in standard shop. So feed
[888s]
optimization foundation for success. I agree. Productivity title engineering. I hate the engineering word frontload first 70 characters high performing search terms. Agree that's a good thing. Uh lead with the product category and type what people search for. I agree. Include key specification. Agree. Add brand name at the end. Overall agree if you're selling other people's brands. So if you're a reseller and placing the brand name at the beginning as it's often a high converting keyword. It works really well. If you're DDC brand and wouldn't even add your brand name to a title or place it at the end unless you have problems showing up for your own brand term in shop. Image
[918s]
optimization visual optimization. Overall, they they they place this at the same level as product title uh engineering optimization. And I think that's wrong. In 99% of the cases that I see, the hero product image that gets pulled out of the platform into Google Shopping is already the most optimized image. However, I do agree that in some cases, the images that might look good in full size might perform really poorly when scaled down in the shopping ads and even worse when it goes down to mobile where 80 90% of the traffic is. So
[949s]
that's why all I wanted to say say here is like I think this is overly stated. I don't think this is necessary to do at this level. I think that you should only invest time in image optimization when there's a clear issue with how your products are displayed in a smaller ad format. So I don't think that's that important. Descriptions not important whatsoever. Just let it be. If you have no descriptions, you can kind of let AI write it, but you should have descriptions for product pages anyways for SEO purposes. So, if you're missing uh descriptions, that's an issue in and
[979s]
of itself, but I would spend no time optimizing the description. Excluding brand searches, I agree. Let's do that. That makes perfect sense. Campaign segmentation strategies, bestsellers versus others. I'm a huge fan of that. That works really, really well for a lot of different businesses. Product category segmentation particularly effective for what I have never in my life seen that work. So, this is in my opinion a huge mistake. So, you should avoid any of these like arbitrary category splits like a top versus a bottom. There's no performance difference whatsoever between the two.
[1009s]
Um, and there's not different people searching for it. Like that whole thing makes no sense. It just reduces the data volume for smart bidding to do. If it's fashion, if it's apparel, only create two different campaigns if you have distinct seasonal categories. Again, like winter versus summer product, shorts versus coats. That's what that then it kind of kind of makes sense. Otherwise, don't split on category is a really bad idea. and I've just I roll it back all the time when I see it. Then margin based segmentation, if you haven't heard me say this already, I absolutely hate margin based
[1039s]
segmentation. It is ineffective because what somebody actually clicks on in Google ads, it doesn't mean that they're going to buy that. Doesn't even mean they're buying that same category or brand. So, it's a fake thing. You think that it actually works uh to work. If you want to have anything when it comes to margins, then use profit based betting instead. I have a long video on that. last word on campaign segmentization is a little bit raw. I think that somebody needs to get more thinking into this. Uh and seeing that these two are basically wrong. I think that there's big room to optimize here.
[1069s]
Evolution path follow this progression. Manual CPC. Again, if I didn't like manual CBC for branded search where we where where we can choose what we want to bid for different keywords, then I absolutely hate it for shopping. It has been one of the biggest performance gains ever that people were like five years ago were forced to use smart shopping, not smart bidding, but smart shopping where they couldn't bid for bid for the individual products because manual bidding works horrible. It's super ineffective because you can't bid at the search term level. So just again
[1099s]
here just skip straight to target rows. You can't use maximize conversion value if you standard shopping. So that's only a PMX thing. Then they say there's an evolution path here. Manual shopping to PMX. There's absolutely no benefit to migrating standard shopping campaigns to PMX. Either choose PMAX or choose standard shopping. There's no need to do anything else here. Uh don't migrate from manual shopping to PMX will not perform better. It's the same engines. It's the same everything. This whole part makes no sense. Ongoing optimization tactics for manual shopping search add negatives. Can we stop adding
[1129s]
negatives? If I didn't like negatives for search ads, I absolutely hate it for shopping because if you're doing a negative keywords for shopping ads, then you don't know what product it was it was matched to. If it's matched to a poor performing product, then was it the product's fault or is it keywords, search terms fault that the per performance is low. So I I generally don't like negative keywords in shopping ads only if I really really have to product titles. I like that. I don't see how based on performance how that can be done. Please write in the comments if you have any smart way to do that. But I've never seen based on performance
[1159s]
because it's e-commerce like people search for a product. I know what people search for. When they search for that product, I have the data. I put that those search terms into the titles and that's it. Removing search terms that perform poorly is generally not applicable to do in shop. Bid adjustments by product group. You cannot do that. Like if you do bid management and manual bidding, yes, you can. But this is just flawed to say competitive benchmark monitoring. I would write what do you mean? Add product reviews and seller ratings. Yes. Optimize shipping. Optimize. Just set them. There's no optimization tactic around there.
[1189s]
Implement special offers and promotions. Yeah. And monitor competitive price positioning kind of. Yeah, that was it. So again, I go back to the whole thing. I think this is overly simple compared to how much detail was gone into for everything else. So I hope you liked it. Mention in the comments where you think I was wrong, where you think I was right, is there anything on all this that you think that I should have done differently or that you really, really like from here. Let me know. And again, this is all in good fun. This is all in just getting different perspectives on what we see working out there. If you're
[1220s]
into practical PPC insights that you can actually help you, then subscribe. I share tips, breakdowns, and call out what's working and what's not. No fluff, just the stuff that you can use every single week.