[0s]
I've managed millions of Google ad spend and I keep seeing brands make the same mistake when it comes to performance max. They keep thinking that it is a fullfunnel campaign time when it simply isn't. The most common advice for people is out there is to consolidate your campaigns into a single PMAX campaign and just let Google figure out how much to spend on search, shopping, display and video depending on performance. Use advanced AI algorithms, etc. The pitch is basically twofold. One, the algorithm knows much better than you. So why even
[31s]
try to beat it? And the second thing is that PMAC can push top funnel users through display and video to feed your funnel on search, which is so highly demanding on people actually seeing a display ad for you first. So the the problem with this approach is that it assumes that a all products are equal, b that search and shopping perform optimally with the same ros target and that pmax actually targets top traffic. All those assumptions are wrong. So if
[62s]
we look at it, let's look at number one. Your products are split into different categories. So in this case, let's take a look at number one. all your products being equal because you're you'll normally have them split up in something like called bestsellers, unprofitable, longtail, low traffic, etc. So, if you take a look at an account then in this case we we use a slightly different naming um but we use bestsellers. You can see that has a much better conversion rate than we have in suburus which is our unprofitable conversion
[92s]
rate is actually okay for first string and in the youth academy which is what we simply call anything that doesn't have enough traffic to be to get over a different threshold to be called a bestseller or a low pro unprofitable product. There is different performance across all of them. They need to be treated differently. Some businesses also have new products. Some businesses have external and internal brands etc etc but thinking that all products are the same that's a problem. So search and
[122s]
shopping which the second one search and shopping perform optimally at the same ro target. So let's go into another uh another account. So this is just pulling out some data where we'll take a look at okay what does search pull in? What does shopping pull in on a on a list of accounts that we have access to. Um so you can see here some accounts run search and shopping where 5% of search of the spend goes into search where others are at a much more healthy 28% 20% 22%. The reason why that search and
[156s]
shopping are not doing the same is because they might need different roy targets. They might need to be optimized differently. They they might need some different things. I could add like a bunch of extra points here but I just I I'll stick to to to this point. shopping will routinely be able to produce a higher ROS than than search. So setting the same ROS target is insufficient for growth. Now this is less important if you're just starting out or you don't expect Google ads to grow. But if you just if so if you just want to tap into whatever such shopping can provide then
[188s]
it can be a good option to run PMAX. But if you want Google ads to grow, then figuring out at what ROS level shopping will maximize the volume and maximize the profit and the same for search, that is a lot better than just assuming that it's the same ro target for both. The example of course being that it's better to be barely profitable at a 20 $20,000 monthly re uh spend on search than trying to be very profitable on a $5,000 monthly spend. So, some might counter this and say it's better to to be lean
[219s]
and profitable, which might be the right approach in some cases, but if you're looking to grow, then the added value of spending $20,000 a month while being barely profitable is usually much better. The higher the spend drives more stability, drives more traffic, more data to optimize, all of which will help you become more profitable in the future. Limiting spend to being the most profitable you can be now is a mistake. the most m advertisers make when they're looking to grow. And then the third one
[249s]
that Pmax actively targets topfunnal traffic. This assumption is a very very common misunderstanding. I think I know where it's coming from. So it stems from everyone thinking that display and video traffic automatically means topfunnel, but that's not the case. Again we have display and video in this in Pmax is tied to the same row as target as search and shopping. So in order to hit the same row as target for
[279s]
s that you're do on display as you're doing on search then you need to do retargeting. So just because we're it's push advertising like display video doesn't mean we're actively targeting people at the top of the funnel. So what should we do instead? Three things. one, you can consolidate your data for smart bidding, which is a win. Most people don't realize this that when they go from stand their more advanced setup and just plump it all into a pax, the reason why it does better is because you just
[310s]
aggregate the data. The second thing is that you tap into search. A lot of people before PMAX came out weren't running dynamic search ads, which I've been preaching for years you're supposed to do. So you tap into these 10 30% of searches uh that you otherwise miss if you don't run any search or any dynamic search ads and then of course retargeting on display and video can drive some additional conversions. It's still to this day a very small amount in most accounts. So this is this is this
[340s]
is valuable. The other side of all this that I kind of touched on is that you can't do much to optimize the experience which means you can't really you can't make anything better. So, if you know what you're doing and you're good at at Google Ads, then you don't have any access to actually improve things any longer. So, there's five things you can do. That's just this is just five examples of things that we do on a daily basis or weekly or monthly basis that perform that makes your
[370s]
campaigns perform better. So, one thing is we can't run any ad testing, landing page testing, etc. in in search within PMAX. And here is just a a slight example where we went in, we did a test, we try to have the the client used to have trust based ads in their entire in their entire all their campaigns. Then they have price focused ads and then we went in we simply use chatb to write a customized first version and do it across the board. It basically converted two to three times better than anything
[401s]
else out there. um very um so I would say that this is something that most people should do and most people don't do enough and you can't do it in Pmax yet. Then there's testing different targets for different keywords because the example of course being like if you have the keyword Nike running shoes at a 500% target then you like the keyword running shoes is so broad. It's like a if if you sell running shoes as a core keyword. You want to see where do you get the highest amount of volume for that and maybe
[431s]
sometimes that's below your typical ROS target, you can't make any decisions on this inside of PMAX. Being able to aggregate multiple campaigns into a single bit strategy. So you give the system more data is just a a super nice thing to do. Also gives us more data on how we can actually change things. change the max CBC's, change minimum CBC's, we can see projected rows and other things that are harder to see across multiple PMAX campaigns if you're
[462s]
running multiple. Um, so I love B strategies. I I talk about all the time. And then a big one for me is that this this thing number five we can't do and it's a little bit broader, but it is we have no way to know what happens if performance decreases or increases. Like I get it. If everything is going up and to the right, then I don't care why it happens. Yeah, let's just sit back. Let's be happy. Let's let's count our money. Let's just get all the revenue at the highest row as possible we can. I don't care how it happens, but that's
[493s]
best case scenario. What happens when performance drops or starts stagnating? And that's where a lot of the conversations we have is, hey, we've been running PMAX. It did well, but now we've kind of been stagnant for three months, six months, nine months, 12 months, 18 months. Once it starts dropping or start being stagnant, it's very nice to know, is it because we're not getting enough out of search, shopping, display, or YouTube? Is it because we our brand keywords are are getting hit? Is it our broader category keywords? Is it is our money keywords,
[523s]
is core keywords? Is it um is it increased competition on search? Is it increased competition on shopping? what what is it that that that means that we're dropping in performance or we're not growing anymore and because one part is knowing the other part is actually doing something about it. You don't have access to influence much in in performance max. when something goes wrong and let's just say you figure out what to actually do or what it is that's
[554s]
wrong, you don't have a lot of options to actually optimize it because you can kind of change the budget, but that doesn't do much. Then you can change the ROS target up or down. What does that solve? Then you can like yes, we can we can remove products and and do some different things. you can play with asset groups which just doesn't do anything. So that's a problem. So everything is good until it's not good anymore. And that's really the biggest issue with Pmax and consolidating
[584s]
everything. The opposite obviously of consolidating everything in Pmax is to run dedicated search and shopping campaigns. Search campaigns targeting brands, categories, your generic keywords where you test ads following a framework. You find out what is our what what should our ideal target rowers be? what should our max CPCs be? And you increase, decrease, you make changes for that throughout the year. Then standard shopping using some kind of sophisticated campaign structure to isolate performance without splitting out the data too much. Uh so smart bing
[615s]
can't perform again around 300 conversions per month per bit strategy at the very least. I know that's different than Google's uh recommendations, but I disagree with their recommendations a ton, especially in e-commerce. So if you just if we just go a step back and try to compare it. So PMAX is focused on simplifying management. You have fewer optimization options. You have fewer insights that will fuel optimization ideas and you'll basically do the same thing as everyone
[645s]
else. That is fine as long as everything goes well. It's fine if you don't have the skill set to actually run more dedicated standalone campaigns. But if you feel you're stagnating, if you feel your performance is starting to go down, then you just need to understand that there is another level. Changing asset groups and changing some of these things with PM is not going to make a big difference. Going to standalone search, going to standalone uh shopping ads, it works incredibly well. It does require
[675s]
experience. It does require knowhow. It gives you a bunch of vast optimization options and areas to go. It gives you more insights to help fuel some of these optimization ideas and it is a way to actually take it everything a step further, but it does require that you know what you're doing. Summarizing a little bit what we've learned today, throwing everything in to PMS campaigns is akin to throwing pasta on the wall and see what sticks. You basically just apply rose target, give Google a bunch of products and landing pages and
[705s]
whatever it can hit or it's the target rose on it will spend on. The second thing is that dedicated search and shopping campaigns allow you to take it one step further and optimize in two ways. One, maximize performance from your highest performance segments. You can identify low performance segments. You can improve low performance segments with different optimization tactics like well it's in the platform with using bidding strategies etc. or off the platform completely. The third one is
[736s]
just remember dedicated search and shopping campaigns do require some knowhow. So if you've only worked with PMAX in the past and you have some learning to do. There's plent of resources. Anything before 2023 will still be applicable for a lot of things. Uh spending the time learning and applying some of these tactics can really allow a huge unlock in your account. So that was it for me today. Subscribe for more tips. There's a new video on Google Ads out every single
[766s]
week. If you have any thoughts, any comments, I'd love to hear from you in the comment sections. See you later.