[0s]
Most people talk about target CPA or maximize conversions or maximize conversion value, but the actual conversation for e-commerce should be target ROS versus maximize conversion value. The conversation is almost never had. And today we're going to have that conversation. For e-commerce, there are two main bidding methods. There's maximize conversion value where you give smart bidding a budget and it'll spend the budget on segments that produce the highest conversion value. I say segments because it's called keywords, called
[30s]
products, called search terms, you call audiences, devices. I call them segments and all it's all the same thing. Then on the other hand, you have target rows where you give smart bidding a restraint in the form of a ROS target. It still has the same budget restraint, but now it also has to adhere to a ROS target. And it's this last sentence that causes confusion for most people because some people will say that maximize conversion value is the best approach because it allows smart bidding to spend without any constraints. Sounds good, but they're absolutely wrong. So in this
[60s]
video, I'm going to go through why maximize conversion value opens up a list of other issues and that you actually want to put restraints in the system. And I'll talk about a couple scenarios where it might still be a good idea to run maximize conversion value because as we all say it all depends, right? So the the reason why some people like maximize conversion value is partly because it sounds good. Hey Google, here's a budget. Now maximize my conversion value. Sounds good. It makes
[91s]
it seem it's a little bit better way to scale Google Ads account. But target ROS also maximizes your conversion value. It just does it while saying while adhering to a ROS target. Maximize conversion value only adheres to a budget target budget budget target which does open up other issues. Another reason why maximize conversion value is misunderstood is because it goes against the user behavior in Google. Let me repeat that. You don't want to spend the same thing every single day. You might want to do that on meta, but you
[122s]
definitely don't want to do that with Google ads. The problem with the this whole budget constraint with and maximize conversion value is that searches on Google differs from day to day and week to week and month to month for that matter. Telling Google to spend the same thing every day, no matter how much demand there is, meaning no matter how many searchers there are, makes little sense. On days or weeks with low demand, you'll start seeing smart bidding spend your budget by increasing the CPC. As the green line
[152s]
goes up with uh goes down with demand, then Google has to increase your CBC to spend your budget. And it means that we'll get a lower ROS because you're basically paying the paying more for for less clicks. That's actually the exact opposite of what we want on days with high demand. We want to ride the wave to demand. We want to ride the wave of demand to increase the volume, not lower our bids because our budget isn't ready for the increase in demand. Target ROS on the other hand looks at it a
[183s]
completely opposite way. As long as the target rowers can buy the same click at the same price, then it'll trust the historical data that that will drive the same ROS. Target ROS doesn't care if there's a thousand people searching or 10,000 people searching in a day. It'll spend the same per click as it has deemed optimal to hit your ROS target, which means we're able to ride a wave of demand on days and weeks with high demand and be protected when there are fewer searches and avoid Google increasing our CPCs when there aren't
[214s]
enough people to actually fulfill our budget that day. So the way that this works is that if your cost per click is 87 cents and you're seeing a rose of 700% then it shouldn't matter if a,000 people are searching or 10,000. To put another way, if the system is consistently profitable at 87 cents per click, then the more searchers you capture, the better. Think of it like a retail store. the more you should be able to sell without worrying about hitting a ceiling on your budget or however many people come into a store.
[246s]
Whether or not you spend $870 or $8700, the ROS will remain stable. So, the budget should not limit the campaign's ability to scale with demand. Now, then then my question to you, which do you actually prefer? Do you want smart bidding to spend as much money every day, the same amount of money every day, essentially changing your price per click based on how many people are searching for your product or you want to do it the smart way, which is spend as much as you can while still hitting the royal target? The the answer
[278s]
is obviously pretty pretty simple. The biggest challenge with maximize conversion value is that it means you have to add an extra component in the way that you manage your bids. Which means you have to try to balance the correct budget to the demand there is on a I don't want to say a daily basis but at least on a weekly basis. If we take this example here is that you're running with a pretty stable demand and all of a sudden you start having lower demand which means that Google is going to start spiking or increasing your CPCs
[308s]
and that means your rows goes down. The reason why your ROS goes down is that your conversion rate doesn't change as your CPCs goes up or the demand goes down. So as you're paying more per click you are in effect becoming less and less profitable. If we take if we take another opposite scenario where we where we all of a sudden get hit by high demand and we don't change the budget then Google is going to start decreasing our CPCs which means that our rowers will go up yes but our spend will remain
[339s]
the same which means that the budget will remain the same sorry which means the revenue will remain the same the entire way through and these are best case scenario. There are also more like less frequent scenarios where let's say smart bidding is predicting the demand wrong because it it's not going to get it right all the time. It's always reactionary then it can go into the week or the day with a with the wrong bid and if the if if the bid is too low then it
[369s]
will result in fewer clicks and less revenue than if you had had used target rows. If the bid is too high it will result in a worse row than if you had used target rowers. So I would say the last example here is like maximize conversion is somewhat good at navigating it. So I don't want to make that as the biggest thing but there are plenty examples where I've seen this go wrong. Target ROS on the other hand is a lot more steady. So let me show you in in in a real account the way that that works. So you can see here that this is summer month. We have conversion value
[400s]
which revenue goes more or less directly with the increase in cost. If we change conver cost with conversion value by cost, then we can see that hey, it actually stays fairly the same. So where it starts out at 100,000 in revenue and and 545 in in ROAS, it ends up at 667 and double the revenue. Fairly simple. It like ROAS stays pretty much the same. And that's basically what we want. Yes. Are there days and weeks where it's not hitting
[430s]
the exact optimal bid? Of course, it's the same thing if you run it manually. It's the same thing if you run it maximize commercial value. It will get it wrong sometimes, but all in all, trying to navigate the optimal budget on top of all of this for a specific day or week in order to hit your desired ROS target makes it extremely difficult. Now, so let's discuss how do you get the most out of target rows. There's three things. One is setting the right target. Basically, if your target ROS, if target
[462s]
ROS doesn't work for you, then you're most likely because you're not setting the right target. For some businesses, this is a business constraint. If you have a 10% margin, then you basically need to set a 10 1,000% ROS target just to break even. And if you can't hit that ROS target, then the system will not bid for you. So in that case, if you've been running with a maximized conversion value instead, then yes, it will spend, but it's going to spend inefficiently and it's not going to hit a thousand% ROS. Then I love to use bit strategies.
[492s]
Bit strategies is this thing where if you're going through going back into account tools, bit budgets, bidding, and bit strategies. We have different portfolio bit strategies. The way it works is that we can group campaigns together. It gives us the ability to set a max CPC, a minimum CPC. It allows us to see okay what will if we take the last uh 30 days here we can see okay what is our rowers week by week what's the target row has been up against what the actual rowers has actually been it
[524s]
uses this projected row which means okay we're hitting 652 for the last 30 days but it's actually estimating we're hitting 7 676 which is exactly our average target row which is funny if you start looking at the last seven days because we have some conversion lag Then we can see, hey, it's only hitting 514. What the heck? Why is it that? But we can see, okay, it opens up. We're only going to go up to 571. So based on this, we're not going to hit the target at all for the last seven days, which means we might want to do something. Max CPCs,
[554s]
seasonal bit adjustments, might want to do some other things because it doesn't look like we're going to hit the target that we actually want. But all this just means that we get better insights to actually work with smart bidding. And the second thing is that in this case with the search campaign, we have 40 campaigns all lumped together, which means that we give more data to smart bidding. And more data is not just the system works better. No, the key point why more data works better is that smart bidding is a can then react faster to
[585s]
changes in ROS, which means less wasted Aspen and less opportunity cost, which means that you probably weren't bidding high enough when demand actually hit. bid strategies or portfolio. Bit strategies, they keep changing name allow you to combine data across multiple campaigns which gives it more data which is great. Then you want to change your the third thing is you want to change your target ROS at key times. Every single time you lower your ROS target, you're telling smart bidding to
[615s]
go explore, find more volume, buy me more traffic. And every time you do the opposite, every single time you increase your ROS target, you're telling Smarty Betting, tighten up, become more efficient. And there are times to do either throughout the year. Even if you basically want to have the same ROS all year long, then decreasing your target ahead of a peak season or right in the beginning of peak season can help you dramatically increase your volume. And sometimes you'll still hit the same ROS target for a couple weeks or a couple of
[645s]
days before it starts realizing, hey, we're not hitting the target. Hey, we have a lot more rows. We can lower our rowers a lot more. Then we'll start bidding way too high. So, there's a way to work with it. But constantly changing your ROS target. Okay, constantly is too much, but once in a while it's great. Now, we want to talk about a couple scenarios where maximize conversion value actually makes sense because it does make sense. One is if your boss is budget budget ccentric and I say boss or
[675s]
organization because if you had the choice, you should definitely change it. So this is not your choice. But if the goal is to spend the budget on a monthly basis and it is much more important to accurately spend the budget than it is to spend the budget in the most efficient way, then maximize conversion value is the best way. Some of you might be like, "What? These people exist?" Yep. There's a lot of them. There's a lot of organizations where if you come in and you spend 10% more than you were allowed to, you're going to get hit over the head. You're going to get a written
[705s]
written warning. Three times you're out. If you find yourself having issues with getting campaigns to spend even when you decrease your rows target, sometimes it's easier just to go to maximize conversion value because it will make your campaign spend won't spend it efficiently. But once you then gotten some spend, you gotten the data in, that's when you can then move on to target rows and tell it be more efficient, work with this data that I have. The third example is if is another example of bypassing the reward target
[735s]
is to reset an account with a low amount of conversions. So let's say your tracking malfunctioned or the conversion rate on your site tanked. You've since fixed it, but Google it just can't figure it out. It can't come back to the it can't get back to the same levels as before the issue happened. Basically going in and saying, "Hey, we used to spend $1,000 per day. Now we're only spending 600." going in and saying, "Okay, we put a budget at $1,000 per day and we put maximize conversion value." It's going to force Google to go, "Here's your restraint free. Go nuts."
[765s]
This can be a good way to reset the data collection, especially if you're not used to or comfortable working with manual bidding. But that's very all this is very very different from maximize conversion value being your goto bidding mechanism. So to summarize the key learnings from today, so you want to maximize conversion value. Uh you want to use that in very specific cases, but it sounds much better on paper than it actually works. And it's less effective in scaling Google ad accounts than target rows because with target rows, we
[797s]
can actually ride the demand. So trying to predict demand on Google is basically impossible, which means you're always a step behind when trying to set the accurate budget, which means you're either bidding too high or bidding too low to get that perfect row and maximize your revenue despite it actually being called maximize conversion value. And then we go like the third one is target rows allows you to write the wave of demand while you're still hitting the same rows target. It's really the biggest takeaway from today. And then if you are working
[827s]
with target ros, remember to just change the targets. It helps you improve volume, helps you become more efficient. And I would highly recommend you always do that. So I hope you I hope I hope you liked it. Remember to subscribe for more tips. We get a new video out every single week. Remember to comment. Did I get something wrong? Did I get everything right? What would you like to hear from me moving forward? And I'll d into that. But we have one video per week and I'm hope to see you