[0s]
One of the most controversial things that I've said about Google Ads in the last couple years is that smart betting has made negative keywords irrelevant. Or has it? So, I've seen some of the biggest gains this year, not from adding negative keywords, but from removing them. Yep, I said removing. And the reason is that most people overdo it when it comes to negative keywords. So, if we jump into an account, then we have an example here of a DSA campaign where we're where we're comparing year-over-year. And we can just see that the amount of clicks we're getting this
[31s]
year is massively more than last year. I think it's about 3x and we're getting to almost 3x revenue. All for making sure that we're not doing two things. The two things that we shouldn't be doing is we shouldn't add proactive negative keywords, which are the negative keywords that represent keywords you already have in the account. So if you have a keyword Nike running shoes in the account, don't exclude it from your DSA. The second thing is that most people will overdo adding negative keywords before they have any statistical significant data to actually be added.
[62s]
So that's what we're going to talk about today. But before we talk about this today, then let's talk about why this even became a thing. The most common belief is that negative keywords help you save money by cutting waste, by improving rowers. And that used to be 100% true 5 years ago, but smart bidding flipped the script on it. [Music] It doesn't just bid by the keyword like we used to do, like I used to do manually. We set a bid for every single manual keyword. It bids at the search term level. If a specific search term isn't converting, then smart bidding
[93s]
lowers the bid automatically without me having to do anything. No need for you to exclude it manually. In other words, it already acts like a negative keyword system, but with more data and faster action time and more actions than we will have. So, here's the mistakes. You keep adding negative heroes like it's 2018. You add them once based on your gut feeling or one bad week or nine clicks and no conversions and the result is that you're cutting out search terms that might have just needed a lower bid
[123s]
or a different season to perform or simply just needed more time. Let me break it down how smart bidding handles this better than you can. Number one is that a search term might be profitable on desktop but not on mobile. Smart bidding adjusts for that. The second one is that a search term might lose money at a $1 cost per click, but it will kill it. It will be perform excellently at 25 cents. Again, smart bidding handles that nuance. The third example is that in shopping campaigns, a search term could be unprofitable for one product, but
[153s]
great for another. You can't segment for that, but smart bidding can. In all three cases, if you go in with your hammer and you start start excluding the terms that aren't working according to you, then you lose revenue and you can't scale. Full stop. So, does that mean that we should stop using negative keywords altogether? No. But we just need to be a heck of a lot more strategic about how we use them. Here's when negative keywords still matter. Number one, when a search term performs poorly over a long period like 6 to 12 months,
[184s]
especially if it's low volume and smart bing just doesn't have enough data to react, that's when you should add it as a negative keywords. The second example is that in the early stages of a new account or campaign when there's not enough conversion history for smart bank to work, then you should obviously also add it. And thirdly, of course, all the dumb stuff like that you don't need statistical significant data to actually use like competitors or totally irrelevant products, totally irrelevant search terms, that stuff should obviously be excluded immediately. Now,
[214s]
let me try to show you how I actually do this because adding negative keywords should not be done on a onetoone basis, but should just follow a system, follow a Google sheet, and it's the easiest thing in the world. So, here we have a madeup example of negative keywords. So the way that this works is that I've pulled in all of the search terms and the data. I've calculated the row as myself and I've calculated a clickbucket. The clickbucket is used to show whether or not we have 0 to 10 clicks, 10 to 20, 20 to 30, 30 to 50, 50
[245s]
plus. That's where we look at statistical significance. The reason why we're calculating rorowas in here instead of pulling it in is because often it can become an issue when we try to aggregate rorowas like again average on averages. We don't want that. I just I never pull rows in. I always calculate it manually because we can also do some other things over here. So of course this is of course a calculated metric over in the pivot table. But what we do is I create two pivot tables. One I create a pivot table where the search term has the rows below 200%. And here I have it at a row above 600%. Like you
[275s]
might see here okay we have a total spend of 136,000 and we get 35,000 chron revenue meaning we get a 25% ro. This is horrible obviously, but you can't just pull out the 136,000. That's the issue that we talked about before where we just go willy-nilly because it's all of these zero to 10 search terms. They don't have statistical significant data in order to actually exclude anything. But it's also here where the biggest amount of waste is. The problem is that if we exclude all of these, then we're
[306s]
also going to exclude this line, which is where we get 600,000 revenue at a 2,000% ROS. So, we can't exclude this without excluding this. And you might say, of course, we can, Andrew. We just don't exclude the search terms that are down here. Get it? But the search terms that are in from 0 to 10 and have this kind of revenue, there will be a part of those that we want in the future that are going to be in here. So, if one of these get one more click and it converts, then it actually automatically goes into this one because it's it doesn't have a lot of clicks. So, it's going to immediately have a super high
[337s]
row. So, you can't exclude these and you borderline can't exclude these. It depends a little bit on how we actually work with it. So what I do here is that I go in and I say, okay, if I take out these three buckets, meaning everything over 20 clicks, then I find 24,000 in spend that I can remove. That's very very little. It's like 3 and a half% of the total spend. If I take this one in in with it as well, and that's what I try to show over here, then we get 46,000 and spend around 7%. That's roughly where we land when we try to
[368s]
make these do these exercises on accounts that are working well is that we find out that roughly between four to 8% is the actual negative keyword or spend we can actually remove by adding negative keywords. I would still potentially be scared about this bucket because it is potentially a lot of the revenue we also remove. Again 10 to 20 might actually be good to remove. So, I would consider it depending on whether or not this account actually need a lot of push back, whether or not we are trying to optimize for profit or we're trying to scale. If we're trying to scale, then I would actually not remove
[399s]
these. I would just let it be, but I would definitely remove these. Again, doesn't have that big of an impact, but that's not what we're talking about here. We don't want to just do stuff to make an impact. We actually want it to work properly in the account moving forward. All of this data was pulled via Super Metrics. You can also use data slayer or you can just export directly from Google Ads. We do some aggregating and that's it. It's it's pretty pretty simple. To summarize what it is that we've done today, I want you to remember a couple of things. One, smart bidding has made negative keywords less impactful than ever before. Two, most of
[429s]
the time when you add negatives, you're more likely to exclude revenue than to actually save money. So, look at your account before you start just excluding and adding negatives. Because if you're in a scaling mode, you don't want to exclude that revenue. But if you're in a mode where you just can't get up to the rose level where you want to be, then maybe you want to exclude some of that revenue to lower some of that scale but become profitable. So again, depends where your account is right now. Third thing is only add negative keywords when you have enough data and when smart bidding hasn't already solved the problem for you. And keep two lists.
[461s]
This is something we didn't mention before, but have two negative keyword lists that you add them from. Evergreen is the horribly performing. You never want to see those keywords again. And then you have low season. Low season is if you're selling, let's say you're selling swimsuits and then in February, some search terms might not work and that should be added as negative keywords, but in May, June, July, they're going to perform exceptionally well. Put them on a low season negative keyword list that you can remove when you get into your peak season or you that you can remove when you go to Black
[491s]
Friday, you can remove during Christmas and stuff like that. And the fifth part is that remember to prune these things regularly. Don't just have negative keywords that just that you added from 2018 because it will change in performance and it will change over time. So from here I want you to do three things. One, if you have never touched your negative keywords, try removing all your negative keywords. Seriously, just remove them. Let smarter bidding do its thing for 4 weeks. Then come back, run the methodology that I show you here today and see what happened. Two, build all this into your
[521s]
optimization routine once a year at a minimum. Try to remove all negative keywords and just see what happens. You'll be surprised at how many bad search terms turn out to be winners once you get out of the way because again it changes depending on you get new products, your categories or brands are expanded. Your competitors can change, your prices can change, your promotional strategy can change. That means that a negative keyword that didn't work a year ago might start working now. So, I hope you enjoy this video. I have a new video coming out every single week. Just post comments and questions in in the comment
[552s]
section and I'll be there to answer anyone along the way. If you're into practical PBC insights that you can actually help you, then subscribe. I share tips, breakdowns, and call out what's working and what's not. No fluff, just the stuff that you you can use every single