[0s]
If you're managing Google Ads, you know the drill just as well as I do. There's a hundred different tasks flying at you every single week. You're constantly feeling like you're reacting and you're wondering where your time actually goes when you look back on the week, the month, and the year. What if I told you that the secret to Google Ads productivity isn't about working harder, but using a bulletproof routine that actually gives you back control. That's what I've done the last 15 years. And in this video, I'm going to pull back the curtain and show you exactly what my weekly Google Glass routine looks like and what the routine is we recommend to
[31s]
people in Savvy in order to actually be on top of accounts and how it helps you push back against all those time wasting urgent requests from your boss, teammates, or even your client. Before we dive into the daily breakdown you saw in the thumbnail, I want to talk about 10 non-negotiable rules that makes this entire system work. And one of them, if you ignore it, will sabotage every single effort you make to be more productive. Number one, there's a few things that move the needle, and you need to find out what it is for your account. For some accounts, changing the
[61s]
budgets and bids makes no sense whatsoever. For others, it's one of the core things you need to work on. So, figure out what moves the needle for your account and spend most of your time there. Number two, analysis doesn't move the needle unless it leads to action. And if you're analyzing an account all day, coming up with super nice, fancy reports and figuring out all these cool things, that's awesome. But if you don't do anything about if you don't click that button in the interface, performance is not going to change. Number three, avoid doing a little of everything. Try to scale in and focus time or days to really get in depth. It
[91s]
can be a whole day of ad writing. It could be a whole day of bidding, be a whole day of doing something else. Just try to avoid doing a little bit of optimization here, a little bit of ad writing there, a little bit of search term review there. schedule focused time in for things. Number four, fix dashboards with data saves you a ton of time if it's gathered in one place so you can do an easy analysis. In Savvy, it's as easy as we have a spreadsheet where we have all the data for a specific client. And then we don't have to jump one place to get the blended rows. We don't have to get another place to get the margin. We don't have to jump
[121s]
another place see, weekly, and monthly. We have everything in one spreadsheet where we also can compare to the exact same days or dates last year. Number five, using conversions by time can help you understand current performance and not have to wait for the conversion lag. That is just annoying to wait for, but you just need to be careful. If you have a large spend last week and a lower spend this week, then this week's ROS by time will look pretty good. Number six, make sure you automate recurring tasks. This is everything from make sure you have safety reports in the merchant
[151s]
center. So if your feed drops, then all your products don't go away. you need to disable Google's automations so that you one day don't wake up and like, "Oh my god, why is the broad match in my entire account?" Whatever tools you're using, make sure you build in some notifications so you get told about things. You don't have to actively go in and check for things to be there. Number seven is one of my biggest biggest things is you need to take notes. No matter if you're an agency or you're inhouse, you need to take notes and you need to take two different kinds of notes because it saves you time in the
[181s]
future. Number one is that you need to set notes in the graphs inside of Google Ads. When you make a bidding change, when you make make a budget change, when you make a bigger change to campaigns, new pausing, a lot of stuff, just put in a small note. It takes you 3 seconds to do. And you can then in the future see, hey, we saw lower spend on this day or after this day, what happened? Well, I changed the bids. I changed the budgets. And then I'd like to have a log or any big changes, any changes really do and all my thinking goes into a notion database where I can easily find out
[211s]
what my thinking was around certain things or why I made it the change that I did. Number eight, bookmark any report or link that you access frequently. For goodness sake, do not just go adwords.google.com, go to your MCC, go find the account, and then you no, you need a link to just bookmark. Go straight to that account. Takes 5 minutes to set up and then you have it in there. You just click a button. Number nine, you need to get out of recurring executive meetings, especially if they're weekly. Again, weekly meetings with your manager, having proactive communication, all these things work really, really well.
[241s]
But try to get out of recurring executive meetings, they take forever to prepare for. There's a lot of time just wasted in there. And number 10 for me is the second biggest thing. Proactive communication lower all other communication tasks by 80%. Especially for in-house teams because you suck at at communication because nobody's expecting you to really do something. This is where agencies is a lot better built to do it. But just making sure that you every week you send a report or or an update out to your manager or anybody else who's who needs to be in the know and just give them an update.
[273s]
Take those 30 minutes and give them an update on everything. What's happening with this sale? What's happening with this data? What's happening with this product that we're trying to push right now? What happened to this thing you guys agreed to two weeks ago? What's the update on this data? Just get it all in there. It stops people from asking you a thousand questions randomly throughout the week. If you struggle with productivity, then one of the things that is very very important is that you find out a way to get your week to be more structured. I'm going to show you what an ideal week looks like for somebody with complete
[304s]
autonomy and they just have one client. Later, I'll show you how to customize this if you're inhouse, you have a task or if you work with multiple clients, plus how my own week look like. So, as you can see here, we have an overview where we say, "Okay, this is every day we're going to do a daily check-in." Like I mentioned before, the more notifications you have, you can reduce the need to do a daily check-in. Then Mondays, we do performance, bidding, and reporting because those three tasks go together more or less. And again, if you have a small account, if you don't have anything else to do or anything, you can
[334s]
put in more tasks. Uh, but I like to structure it like this. Then on Tuesdays, we do optimize build. Same thing on Wednesday. Thursday is again a performance deep dive and at hawk for anything that we need. Fridays we do communication so that everybody's updated for when they come in on Mondays and we have some playtime built into it as well. The way that this works is that we have four main buckets when it comes to the routine and I want to rotate them on a weekly basis depending on what I need. The four buckets are analysis, optimization, building and playtime. I split up optimization and building
[365s]
because I feel like building things and accounts is different than optimizing the things we already have. So I like to split those two out so it doesn't get too much. Otherwise, this is what it looks like. So we have under the analysis part, we have the these proactive check-ins every day. And again, the more notifications you can actually get in there, the better you can avoid having to be in there yourself. The daily check-in is just a check-in. Add any tasks you find from there in your overall task management system. Do not try to do everything on that date. That's not what the idea is.
[395s]
The idea is just to go and check and see if there's anything wrong. If there's anything wrong, you add a task. Um, from a performance standpoint under analysis, it's a little bit different than your checking because it is going more in depth trying to find out is anything underperforming, is anything overperforming, and then figure out why and what to do about it. It can also be you have to check in on seasonality, promotions, and other things. And that way you can just get ahead of everything. The reporting I like to have a weekly and monthly reporting schedule and then I do of course anything ad hoc for board meetings. Optimization routines really depend on what the
[426s]
individual account is and the same thing for building. Sometimes I spend a lot more time on building than I do on optimization. So it it really depends. The one thing I just want to say here this is like a pretty standard approach to the different optimization tasks that we have as you can see on the screen. Maybe some of them you need to add that are focused on your account or what you specifically do. This is pretty broad and this handles most accounts, but it's not anything specific to some of the accounts that I have. Then number four is playtime. Just this is where you play. This is where you learn new
[456s]
things. You test new scripts. You watch new YouTube videos. You play with chatt. You try to create automations. For some people, this is there's zero time for it. For others, they have a lot of time. So, I wanted to show you my exact schedule before I go in and show what an agency and an in-house team look like. I work with two large clients. I have content requirements. I have different meetings within the agency and I have different other obligations. So, this is just overall what my week looked like. So, I'll come in Monday and I'll just do a daily check-in. Uh, but then I'll do exactly what I said before, performance,
[487s]
bidding, and bit report that goes sent out to both clients every single Monday. That way I have looked at what what is the performance and I've sent out a report for it and I've made the same changes every single week. Then on Tuesdays it's client A. It is actually reverse. I start with optimizing and building and then we have a meeting at the end of the day. Wednesday I go over to client B full optimization day with them optimize build reporting and they get the notification that they need or communication that they need. Thursday, I go back to client A because we've discussed things on Tuesday that they didn't discuss more in depth on
[518s]
Wednesday and they get final approvals on and then I get the go-ahhead on Thursdays on some of the things that I want to do. That allows me to do optimization, performance, and reporting for them. Fridays is then it's very mixed. It depends who needs it the most, what is more urgent, do I have any big build tasks I need to do? Otherwise, is really where I do most of my content or I do my play time where I try to learn new things. However, I will say I don't have any dedicated play time. I usually try to build it into everything that I do. Sometimes I do the same thing every single week, but I try to as much as
[548s]
possible try to learn new things, try new things, try smart building exploration, try AI max, try these things that I try to build it into my optimization and build time overall. Now, I have a couple of things that are different when it comes to whether or not you're an agency or you're inhouse when you create these routines. The biggest difference is that an agency you probably need to decrease the week to a day instead and then rotate more where in-house uh teams might have more custom tasks that fill out the week. You might have to work on price comparison
[578s]
websites or other channel work. You might need to do a lot more feed management for other channels than I do from Google Ads with standpoint. You most likely have to sit in on a lot more meetings than I have to do. I don't get as many requests for reports. It is one of the fun things that happen when you're an agency. So an in-house week might look more like this where we say okay on Monday you still have the performance and the reporting and the bidding aspect but then there's a team meeting has been thrown in there. Tuesday might be a completely shot day for you. You have three agency syncs and you have a meeting with your category
[609s]
managers. Wednesday is then the day you can go fully in on just focusing on Google ads. If you go back to the beginning of the video, make sure you don't have like, okay, team meeting Monday, category meeting Tuesday, agency meeting Wednesday, brand meeting Thursday. Get all your meetings in one day if you can. Try to get as get dedicated time just to focus on Google ads. Get into that mindset. Really focus on it on that day. Thursday, we go in, we okay, now we then do some of the extra channels from the brand marketing
[639s]
team. They have some ad updates they want to do, etc., etc. Now we just we schedule all that ad hoc weird stuff on a Thursday. If there's any time left over, we can push back into look into our ad account, but we just try to keep Tuesdays and Thursdays to weird stuff and meetings. And then Wednesdays and Fridays is really where Fridays nobody bother us. So we can really focus on optimizing and building. And then I just say remember to get a communication or reporting uh tab in here where you just send out that 30 minute email, 10-minute Loom video explaining what it is that has happened and what the next steps
[670s]
are. Now the most important thing here is that you protect your schedule and you just you need a schedule so that when your manager or anybody else comes and says hi can you do XYZ things today then you can say yes I can do it but I can't do it today I can schedule it for Thursday today I'm focused on optimizing then your manager can say no and they'll override you don't get to make those kind of ch decisions okay okay but I can't tell you how many in-house teams where when I come in I start coaching them, half
[701s]
their week just goes to things that have nothing to do with the channel that they're managing, their Google Ads manager, and half their week goes with other things. So, really focus on making sure that you have a plan because most of the time people will respect a plan if it's set up in a schedule instead of you just going, well, I can't do it today. Why not? Well, I'm optimizing. You're always optimizing. No, not really. However, for an agency, your structure might look a little bit differently. or if you're a freelancer. So on Monday, you have a weekly plan that you create for yourself that week.
[732s]
I think that's one of the things we do a lot in Savvy is make sure that people go in and they plan their week. Some like to plan on Fridays, others like to do it on Mondays. For us, it just needs to be ready Monday morning at 10:00 a.m. Then we have an internal meeting, go over anything that's new, anything, any changes. And then most people go out and they focus on the performance and reporting for their clients. Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday all look very similar. There's client A, B, C, and D. For some, this means that you actually have client A on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, and then client uh B and C on Thursdays and Friday. For others,
[763s]
they have slightly more clients. They're maybe on five or six, and then they split it up in half days or one day every two weeks. But we try to make sure that you get just get one client per day. And it really really helps you helps people focusing on just one thing. Now, the biggest thing on the agency side is to actually get work done and know when to rotate what tasks. Some weeks it's more important to prioritize optimizing and building, while other weeks is more important to understand in depth how the ad account is actually working. Comparing an in-house team to an agency schedule might seem like
[795s]
agencies it's impossible on paper, but many in-house teams get less done than agency teams. And again, the only reason for this is that the agency can distribute learnings across more people. So they end up being more efficient. We do the same thing over and over and over again with dedicated tools for certain tasks. So it's not as bleak as it looks like when you look at in-house versus agencies. You can actually get a lot done. But to summarize what we've talked about in this video, number one, create a schedule of what you need to do when. If this means you need to take tasks that are not Google Ads related and put
[826s]
them on a specific date at a time so that they're they're all on a Friday, they're all on a Thursday, and then the rest of the week is all Google Ads related, then do that. Number two, make sure you know what to do when. That's the schedule, but use it, enforce it, tell other people how it works so that you can actually rely on it. And number three, remember to be proactive. This ensures that you aren't constantly reacting and getting sidetracked for to what other people want and you can actually focus on being proactive in the account. Let me know what your favorite productivity tips is for Google Ads and
[856s]
I'll see you in the next one. If you're into practical PPC insights that you can actually help you, then subscribe. I share tips, breakdowns, and call out what's working and what's not. No fluff, just the stuff that you can use every single week.