[0s]
Do you want the no BS advice that the top 1% of PBC pros actually follow? I can guarantee you that is not what you see on LinkedIn. All these secret hacks and comments to get post on LinkedIn all preach overly complicated setups or just absolute BS. This video I'm breaking down the eight no BS principles that the top 1% follow to get sustainable long-term results. Make sure you stick around for the last one. It's the piece of advice that most agencies are afraid to tell their clients and it could be the single biggest reason why your account is stuck today and has nothing
[30s]
to do with you. Note, I'm skipping all the basic basics because nobody needs to hear another video of somebody saying that you need optimal tracking or why smart bidding beats manual bidding. Here's number one. Don't over complicate unless it drives an impact. Here's the truth. If a baseline Google ad structure does not work, then your complicated structure will most likely not work either. This doesn't mean a more complex setup that speaks to an individual account or business can't perform better than what a simple setup can. But what it does
[61s]
mean that if, for example, if phrase and exact match doesn't work for you, then adding broad match doesn't fix your poor spending account. or if you're only spending $10,000 per month on a PMAX campaign, then switching to standard shopping or splitting your PMAX campaigns into 18 different accounts will not 5x your ad spend. The truth is that if you do the basics right, you should be able to get 60 to 80% of the results that your business allows you to get. Now, for small businesses, paying for that last 20 to 40% can be a bad
[92s]
investment because agencies and freelancers, we cost a lot of money. But larger advertisers pay for those last 20 to 40% is really what can make a huge difference in growing year-over-year or not. And you pay us to get the basics right. Here's what I mean when I call out a basic setup and versus a complex setup. Here's one setup where you can see that it's been split up into exact match and broad match and naming convention makes very very little sense. These are category IDs which just is really really hard to work with and it's
[123s]
just really difficult to figure out what it is. If we then go into the shopping uh side of it, we had 19 different campaigns where it split up into looked like some of them were in high and then the same thing was in standard. So it just seems to just be split up a bunch without any any direct purpose with it. Now if we then go back over to let's just uh take the last 30 days and we can see fewer campaigns basic setup we have a bestseller campaign where we push the bestselling products a main campaign of cyber choice put into something else.
[154s]
Then we have a couple other campaign types that in my opinion are they're only to appease the client in this case. I don't think they're super necessary to have to push. the third party doesn't really cause an issue here because they're afraid of margins and I've told them like a thousand times I'm not worried about it because the third party like we're we're doing profit tracking so it's not really a thing. Just keeping it nice and simple often can do a lot better than trying to over complicate it. Like I say in my agency, it'll get
[184s]
complicated soon enough and it means that the complexity will always come. If you start out building a complicated setup, then suddenly you need to account returns, different margins for different products or the client specific wishes like an example I just showed. So every setup should have a feeling of being this is a little bit too simple. Not overly simple, but just on the verge of I could tweak this. And that's where you stop. The reason why I we always preach simple is because of the second thing help the automation. We know that granularity can kill automation. And
[216s]
granularity is a direct byproduct of over complicating campaigns. Everyone who've worked with PBC back when it was manual uh bidding knows this. The more you split up the campaigns, the more you split up the b the data. And the more you split up the data, the longer it takes to use the data and the longer it takes to actually figure out how to make a real impact on an account. This is what we mean by granularity can kill automation because automation works based on all the same things that we used to do when we split up campaigns manually. So the more you split up your
[247s]
campaigns today, the harder it is for the smart bidding and all the other automation to actually take action or be confident in what a bid should be, what should the best ad line ad headlines be in your responsive search ads, what should the right product be for the right search terms, etc., etc., etc. So don't split up your campaigns too much. Now when I say granularity, I really mean this whole thing with products split across many different campaigns. If we go back to the to what I had before, you can see that here we have a
[278s]
very strategic structure with we have a bestseller campaign, we have a main campaign, we have push campaign where we need to feed more traffic into categories or new products that we don't really get enough out of or hasn't gotten a chance to work yet. That's the underlying functionality. That's how we've set it up. And when we then look at, okay, what happened last year, if you look at it, there's just there's just no meaning to the madness. It's been split up in an attempt to just split it up. They wanted to have individual categories and individual
[308s]
campaigns. And this particular advertiser came to us and afterwards when I had created our structure and said, well, aren't we worried that this category, this category or this category, they should have different POS targets? When we did the analysis of it, there were no issues whatsoever. Here's another example where we see keywords all over the place where we have some phrase match and some broad match. And this is another key thing. The more you use broad match, especially if you break it up into different campaigns or different ad groups, then you start
[339s]
seeing the same search terms appear several different places. Everything that I do is an attempt to help the automation work better, which means I can work less. And the core part here is to segment and consolidate for smart bidding and the overall system to work better. It's one of the core things that work in today's Google ads is consolidating, consolidating, consolidating to make sure that the system for smart bidding, response to search ads, etc. to know what should it do when. And all this feeds into the
[369s]
third principle, learn how smart bidding works. When I talk to the top 1% of PPCers out there, they know how the Google Ads auction works and they know how smart bidding navigates it. A lot of people have have an advantage here is that we work with manual bidding. So, we know the auction and we know what smart bidding does. But in order to for you to take have a takeaway here. So, the essentials of the auction and smart bidding goes back to the scurve principle. Meaning that you get exponentially more by bidding just a tad bit more or you can get almost nothing out of bidding a lot more. It's the law
[400s]
of diminishing returns. You can see it in the graphic. You can see there is a sweet spot where just by bidding a slight bit higher, we get monumentally more clicks. And it has to do with the fact that there are limited ad spots. So if the second you get out of the top four, top five product ads, then you miss out on a ton of traffic. So figuring out what should the right row be is super important. The second thing is that you pay what the advertiser below you is betting. That means that if you try to push very hard to be number
[430s]
one, number one and number two can actually have a double the the CPC as what people below you are doing. So figuring out again what is the sweet spot from a profitability standpoint from a traffic standpoint is really important. And that's why when you just set up an account and just let it run the same targets forever, it's a really bad thing. There's another part of this. CBC is a horrible benchmark to see what smart bidding is actually doing. It's one of the things that really the way we all think about it is that bidding doesn't it really just doesn't work like
[460s]
it used to where we would bid lower for a keyword and then it would influence everything. So we can see here again this is just if we lower a bid for a keyword then everything the search query the device the audience the location would all go down with the same amount. However that's not the case with smart bidding. Smart bidding can you can drop you out of the auction on unprofitable segments and keep CPCs high on the high performing segments. This isn't good. This isn't bad. It's just what it is. And it means that you can't truly depend
[491s]
on many of the metrics that we used to look at when we look at what is smart being doing. And again, CBC is one of the worst things you can look at when you whether you figure out is my bidding changes working or not. Now the third thing that you really need to understand when it comes to smart bidding is that projected row is your core KPI to understand what it's doing. Have you ever sat and looked at your smart bidding and gone like why is it increasing our bids right now or why is it decreasing bids? Why is it not spending less etc etc. And the fact is the smart bidding knows that all your conversions from yesterday has not come
[521s]
in yet. This is what we call conversion lag. And the way that you can find that uh when you work with smart bidding is you go into the bidding report or smart bidding report and you look at this. You can see what the actual ROAS is. This is what the ROS is that with all the traffic that's come in. But if you hover over it and you can hover over the the actual ROS or conversion value by cost in your entire account and you can see what is it predicting or what is it thinking will come in further. So in this case we have an average target ROS for the last uh for the last month where it is set to 661%. Our actual ROS is 68.
[554s]
So in theory it should be decreasing the bids. However, it is predicting that with the conversion lag, we're going to end up at 677% ROS, which is basically higher than what the average target RO has spent been the last 30 days. So, it should technically continue to bid up or it should definitely not decrease the bidding. All these things just go back into this thing where we talk about how does smart bidding work. And if you want to be the top 1% of PBC, then you need to figure out how to work with smart bidding. You need to be able to explain
[584s]
smart bidding to clients because if you can't explain how smart bidding works, then you have very little value in the ecosystem. The fourth principle is to focus on the right KPIs. It doesn't matter if your Google ad account is doing great in your eyes. You need to know the business KPIs to make sure everything is good. I've seen two examples of this in the last couple of months. Number one was profit tracking where we've saw that the inaccount metrics were amazing. the specialist on the account from the agency kept pushing for spending more and more and more. There seemed to be a constant disconnect
[615s]
between the PPC manager and the e-commerce manager and the owner. The owner were binging every single month that the invoice came in. They were like, "Why are we not making any more money?" In the end, the e-commerce manager went into profit metrics and added fixed expenses and the PB guy could immediately see that he wasn't profitable enough every single month. So if we take a look in this account, you can see like where last year they were saying, "Hey, we have a PO of 1785. It's doing great." This was obviously horrible month, but like 237 27. We're we're killing it. We're doing amazing
[645s]
and you we actually need to spend more because we are under spending what we're supposed to do. Then when they came out and saw like, hey, we're we're not profitable at all when we look at our business, when we look at our P&amp;L at the end of the year, we are not profitable. And then they went in and then this was alongside an effort to do better pricing so they made sure they had the right prices and could actually convert better. They also said we need to have a higher profit and that's where they actually went in here like now we start targeting above three for the entire year of 2020 2025 and it's just made
[677s]
everything a lot more powerful obviously and that's the thing you need to focus on what makes sense for the client what makes sense for your business and not just say well two is great. We have businesses where a POS of 1.3 is amazing. That's what we go after. And we have businesses where we need to hit a three. Once we start being four, I start pushing back quite a bit. When I push back, I go back and say, "Okay, let's measure the net profit. Let's look at how much is our net profit at 255. What is it at three? What is it at 1.08?" I can most likely say that 108 is
[707s]
horrible, but look at the business metrics. And the second example is that this applies the other way around. I've seen accounts with way too high rows and so their account was choked and not able to scale. This often happens in cases where nobody has realized that over the last three years we've seen monumental changes to tracking. We've seen cookie consent. We've seen data modeling. We've seen enhanced conversions. We've seen server side tracking. And in some accounts, this means that what used to correlate to a healthy business KPI just doesn't correlate anymore. and
[738s]
readjusting to what a good ROS is in Google ads should look like and correlate it to business KPI is what's most important. So focus on the right KPIs. Figure out what is the right KPI Google ads. How does that match the business KPIs in the end? The fifth principle is skip best practices when it calls for it. I tell a lot of people what to do via the audits, our courses or internal training. And I also ask every single person at my agency to actively ignore what I say or our best practices when they know better. A
[769s]
recent example was a client that I had told that PMAC should not be part of the plan at all. However, after 5 months, we saw a pretty big distinction between countries with a lot of data and countries with very little data. So, I said, hm, let's try to use PMAX. So, that way we consolidate and aggregate more of the shopping and the search data into a single campaign and see if that consolidation can help fuel better performance. It's way too early to say if it was a good idea or not, but it was clear that the granular setup that we've
[799s]
created that we created originally for our high spending countries just didn't work out for the small countries. So, we needed to try something else. The sixth uh principle is big picture optimizations over hacks. Over the years, there's been a lot of hacks that have come and gone. Think stuff like adding emojis to ads or this little tweak here and then or jumping on this beta way too soon. I've probably jumped on the back bandwagon one out of 10 times and whenever I discuss hacks with other people in industry, they all say the same thing. We don't pay attention
[829s]
to that. The best case scenario is that you get a temporary boost in performance which then drops all of a sudden when you're not allowed to use emojis in your ads anymore, which can be costly for smart bidding because smart bing now have a complete different performance to actually predict bas. might be fine if you have a small account, but if you're spending $100,000 a day, if you're spending $50,000 a day, if you're spending $10,000 a day even, then the loss that you take afterwards usually is much more costly. And the fact you can't predict your business performance and your marketing performance is something that can kill an e-commerce business.
[860s]
Instead, focus on getting the big picture optimizations right create more stability in your account so that you can gain long-term performance gains. All these little hacks doesn't really work. The seventh principle is that off-platform optimizations is half the work. So I wanted to share three examples before I jumped into too many things. We saw the example that I shared before where working on the prices had a huge impact on performance. If we go in and we take a look at that campaign again during Q1, we're just seeing a
[890s]
conversion rate of 3.34 33. So it's consistently above three comparing to last year 1 one.32 etc etc significantly higher. So that's also what drove this p. However, if the account had had the same row of course targets as last year then this would have just potentially been a lower p. So again what I said before still stands. However this is where they just went in and started doing better pricing on the campaigns. So in this case December went up by a ton where you can see po was pretty bad.
[922s]
That was mainly because they were they had pushed prices way too low. So now they had no margin left and now we're starting to see prices be more sustainable to where they want to be. This means conversion rates goes up, margins are even better because we're still tracking POS. We're not bidding as aggressively. So our CPCs are lower and that's what's driving an offplatform optimization more or less drove the entire conversion rate increase. Then it's about it's your job to capture it correctly when it gets in to Google Ads. And here's another example where we look at member pricing where we can see that
[954s]
we the client that we took over here actually had a pretty good custom label setup. We can see what was the normal price, what's the outlet price, what is something on sale, and then what is a member price. This is something that's not that usually done in the US, but it's pretty big in Europe. Have these membership sites where you get a lower price if you're a member. And for many of these people, it's or advertising is a way to get around the pretty strict laws that are around when a product can be on be said to be on a promotion or not. If you have it as a member price,
[984s]
so you have to be a member to get this price, you can basically show a lower price compared to what everybody else is getting. It's another way to show before and after prices in Europe. So in this case, we're looking at it and we're going like, hm, why does a member price, which is by all means, it is the same as a sale price, when we look at it, why is the ROS so bad on it, why is the conversion rate basically lower than what normal pricing is? And this is an industry where having something on sale or be price competitive is super important. So, in this case, we're looking at it and the reason was
[1015s]
actually because when you land from a product ad and it says member price, it doesn't say how you get the member price. It doesn't say that it's free to become a member. Doesn't say that it that there's no strings attached. It doesn't say anything about that. It just shows the member price. So, nobody believed them when they said that they could get this for 20 30 40% lower than what the before price was. So, again, offplatform optimization. The third thing I wanted to mention here is this this row versus AOV. We have a client where we've gone back and forth on
[1045s]
should they run as many promotions as they're doing because every single time that they run a promotion, our margins go down and then when we do profit tracking, we're already so low on our POS target that we almost can't compete. And we we started seeing a pretty significant trend where whenever the AOV went up, then the POS also went up. And when the AOV went down, the POS also went down. And we went like that. And it meant that smart bidding simply just just didn't know what to do. So when it with the AOV going up, then it could
[1076s]
say, "Hey, now I can bid high." And it will continue bidding high into the following week when the AOV was getting lower again. and then it would decrease the bids and then the following week the AOB would go up because the promotion for that particular product would go away etc etc. So there was just no consistency. So what we've pitched here a lot is to let's let's not run as many promotions because it didn't have the impact that they were hoping for anyways. All of these things is because when I talk to you as a PBC specialist who manages accounts it's your primary job to be able to take full advantage of
[1106s]
the what the performance ceiling of a business is. So, if a business can reach a million dollars a year in in revenue, that that's your job to take it to a million. Once you reach that limit, once you reach that million, it's also your job to figure out ways to raise the ceiling. And here were three examples where we're saying, okay, let's stop doing promotions in the way that we've doing them before. Here is a way, hey, if we tweak the product page for our membership prices, then we can actually maybe we can drive that revenue up and get that 30% increase from there. Or
[1137s]
let's try to work on the prices. We can we saw that example before where we just got way higher 3x the conversion rate by working on the prices. It doesn't all have to be broad match. It doesn't all have to be a PMX versus standard shopping conversation. This is what clients are looking for. This is what your boss is looking for. They're looking for ways to improve the business. And if you can come and say, "Hey, we can do this off platform thing. It will help me take better advantage of Google Ads." Don't say it'll just make Google Ads do better. You still have to take advantage for it of it. You still have to not overspend. Still have to do all the basics, right? But you being
[1168s]
able to push that means you're also a more valuable asset for your company or for your client. Now, the last one, the last principle I wanted to talk about is a direct opposite of what I just said before. It's the principle that if a keyword that matches your ad that matches your product page doesn't work, then you need to run away. Another angle on this is that when we sometimes very often when I take on clients and savvy, especially in the early days, I would have seen a downward trend. I used to think I can fix it. I can just run exact
[1198s]
match. I can do this with smart bidding. I can do this account better. But it's like I was the girl who was attracted to bad boys. We find minute mistakes in in in the boy or in this case in the account setup and I and we think we can be the ones to fix them fix the or fix the downwards trajectory in the account. You can't if the basics don't fundamentally work. If somebody is searching for the product that this business is selling and you show that product in the ad and you don't say this is a free product, if you just show that product in the ad and it goes to the
[1228s]
product page, if that doesn't work, then it's a fully an offplatform thing, then it's the business that doesn't work, then it's the product that doesn't work, it's the conversion rate that doesn't work, it's the pricing that doesn't work, and thinking that you can come in and fix that, unless it's a part of your service, part of your responsibility to go in and take over that business. But if you're only working on the Google ad side and you think you can fix it without fixing the prices, fixing the inventory, fixes the products, fixing the product pages, then you are mistaken. So those were the eight principles. The first seven ones really give you something to work with. The
[1258s]
eighth one is really just a learning from me personally. Don't let your self-esteem go down just because you took on the wrong client. If you're into practical PPC insights that you can actually help you, then subscribe. I share tips, breakdowns, and call out what's working and what's not. No fluff, just the stuff that you can use every single week.