[0s]
So, here's the case for not doing profit-based bidding in Google Ads, despite what everyone says. I see agencies, in-house teams, and freelancers all make the same mistakes when it comes to profit-based bidding. And it is that they recommend it to everyone. Yes, on paper, profit-based bidding sounds like a no-brainer, and one of my good friends in industry runs the best software to track profit in ad accounts. won't mention until he sponsors, but I'm tired of seeing agencies preach profit-based bidding as
[30s]
if it's the end all be all of Google Ads free for e-commerce. There are serious drawbacks in certain scenarios that nobody seems to want to talk about. So to summarize what I mean when I say profit-based bidding, it means simply that we import your profit from a transaction. Meaning we take the revenue minus taxes, minus shipping, minus costs and other variable expenses to Google Ads instead of the full transactional value. But let's first let's discuss the benefits of profit based bidding and then we become a smidge more realistic.
[61s]
And later in this video I'll drop the biggest reason why you should not run profitbased bidding in your account. Keep in mind, I'm a big fan of profit-based bidding, but like with everything on this channel, I like to cut through the BS of best practices and give you some nuance. Another thing I'll just wait with until the end of the video is I'll go through how to mitigate all the issues I talk about today. So, if you are running profitbased bidding, then you don't have to switch back to revenue tracking. The benefits of profit-based bidding is three main use cases, and I'll rank them here from
[91s]
least to most beneficial. As number three, you can discover the ideal profit volume at different rowers levels. Meaning this magical S-curve in Google ads bidding means that we can sometimes generate a lot higher volume at lower row targets, which will mitigate the fact that we're actually being less efficient. This means that testing a lower ROS target while traffic profit can show you that A you can get more profit at a lower ROS target or B you can get a lot higher volume at the same profit per conversion or slightly less
[121s]
meaning you get more customers. Both scenarios are beneficial in their own way. The second one is to align business profit goals with the Google ads tracking. Meaning that if the business KPIs are revolving around profit, then trying to navigate finding the right row target in Google ads that also generate the highest POS or profit can be difficult. So being able to see the profit number instead of the revenue number in Google Ads is a great way to get more aligned in the business. But the number one thing, the number one use
[152s]
case for running profitbased bidding is that you have different margins for different products. This is what I call the golden goose of profit based bidding. If socks are 80% margin but shoes are 20% margin then you can't expect to compete if you run the same row target for all products because all your competitors that are selling socks they're running at a much lower ROS than you are if you try to create like an average row that you need to hit because of your average margin then you're not going to make any money off of off shoes and you're not going to get any volume
[183s]
off socks and the bigger your inventory is the more important this part becomes. Now, let's just quickly bust two myths of when profit tracking in my opinion makes no sense. So, number one is if you have the same margin for all the products, then again, I find it difficult having to say this, but if your margins are all the same, then there's no benefit to profit-based bidding and you're more likely to hurt
[213s]
your account than it helps. I'll explain more later in this video about what I mean when I say will hurt your account. The second one is that nobody cares about profit. I understand this one might be a little bit edgy, but if profit isn't the core KPI that your company runs on, then you waving around and increased profit from Google Ads in in your monthly KPI meetings will make you seem stupid. More likely your client or your boss will say something like this. Yes, Tim, you produce more profit, but revenue is down 33% and new customers is down 50%. That's no good.
[245s]
And I promise I'll never do that voice again. But now, like I teased, let's talk about the biggest drawback that nobody wants to discuss when it comes to profit-based bidding. And it is that it makes smart bidding less efficient. But first, in order to go through that, let's discuss what it actually takes to make smart bidding efficient. Because one of my biggest research studies the last few years that we keep going back to, I keep renewing is to find out what makes smart bidding efficient. And we found it comes back to three things.
[275s]
Number one is lots of data. You know this already, but you need a lot of data for smart bidding to be efficient. But there's two other things that are not that common. The second thing is stability in the conversion rate. And the third thing is stability in your AOV. Smart bidding uses all three to predict what your ROS or CPA can will be with a specific bid. That's how it knows what to set the bid to. And when one of the three factors are off, then smart bidding has a tough time predicting what the optimal bid is, which can put your
[306s]
account into a tail spin. There are especially two cases where PO bidding makes smart bidding less efficient. The first one is if you have a lot of promotions that leads to steep drops and increases in AOV. And the second one is if your PO target is pretty low, then pause will become overly sensitive relatively to the profit that you're actually getting. Let's talk through both because it's not as simple as it seems. The first one was related to drops and increases in AOV. When you track revenue
[336s]
in a Google Ads account and you run a 20% sale on a $100 AOV product, then you go from $100 AOV to $80 AOV. Often the increase in conversion rate will make up for the lower AOV. So when smart bidding tries to predict your conversion rate and your AOV, it's still hitting your roest targets even though it gets your AOV wrong and it doesn't have to change the bits. However, when you drop your AOV by 20%. You drop your margins by even more. So let's say that you have 50% margins and in the same scenario as
[368s]
before, your AOV with profitbased tracking is no longer $100, but $50. When you now give a 20% discount, your AOV drops from $50 to $30. Again, we're sending in the margin, but not the entire purchase value. That's a 40% drop in AOV. This means that smart bidding suddenly can't hit its targets. And during a sale, it will start decreasing bids instead of increasing them, which is hardly the effect that we're looking for. The opposite then happens once it's reduced the bids because now rows will
[399s]
look too good and I'll start increasing the bits again. So we end up with this yo-yo effect with high CPCs and low rowers one week and low CPCs and high rowers the next week. The second scenario is that POS targets become overly sensitive. If you're targeting more than 200% PO in your account and you're typically fine, but anything below 150% PO target starts becoming really difficult to work with. The reason is that if your performance or your rorowas drops from 150% to 140%.
[430s]
It's relatively just a 6.3% drop in the eyes of smart bidding. But for me as the business owner, as the marketing manager, it's actually more like a 20% drop in profit. The difference is in how you perceive it. A 20% drop in profit and how smart bidding perceives a 6.3% drop in ROS can really hurt the profitability of ad accounts. This is an issue because if my profit drops by 20%, I want to be super on it. I'm like that was happening. But smart beating just sees a 6.3% drop in rows as normal
[462s]
fluctuation. So to summarize the issue, when you run profitbased bidding and you have a lot of promotions, then smart bidding ends up being less efficient because it can't rely on historical data. The second thing is that your ROAS targets become less reflective of actual business results. A relatively small drop in your ROAS inside your account is a much bigger drop in profit. And this is mainly an issue at very low POS targets. Now, I promised I would talk about how to mitigate these two issues. So, you don't just s say, "Oh, Andrew, you're telling me to revert back to
[492s]
revenue?" Because that's not always the best thing. So, let's talk about how to mitigate this. If you have a large inventory with varying margins, profit based bidding is still one of the best things you can do for a Google Ads account. So in order to mitigate it, there are two ways. One is to run with max CPC uh limits in portfolio bid strategies. As of right now, you can't do it in Pmax. The second thing is changing how you implement profitbased bidding, which I'll cover at the end. First, let's just talk about using max CPCs. So using max CPC limits
[523s]
can ensure that postbased bidding is more stable. Normally in accountant savvy we will set a max bid of three times the average CPC in an account as just as a hygiene setting to make sure Google doesn't bid way too high or fluctuates too much. But when we run postbased bidding for accounts with a lot of promotions we'll set a much lower max CBC bit closer to 2.5 2x the average CBC. We've even done 1.5x the average CPC if we have to. And we've seen that POA and CBC just goes up and down from
[554s]
week to week. This ensures that smart bidding can't be too aggressively when POS is good. But let's just take out an actual example and look at it. So here's an actual example. So this is our internal dashboards that we use in Google Sheets. We have for everything in here. And what we've seen here is that here is when I started implementing more aggressive MAC CBC's. And ever since then, we can see we've been very stable in our CBC level. We've been down to at three. We've been up at five. But now, we're a lot more stable. We can also see it in the index year-over-year. It's
[585s]
more where we want to be in this particular case. We don't want to be at the same CPCs year over year because we've it before we took over, we were over bidding across the board. When we then look at it, we see that clicks are more or less stable year-over-year. So, we're not losing out any clicks by doing this. We're also looking at conversion value also seems to be pretty stable. ROAS in the account or POAS in this case is actually the highest. It's one of the highest it's been all year. But the most important metric here is profit. And we can see here in the index year-over-year
[615s]
that we're having 85 87 82% which when we look at the entire year, we've never really been at it. And we started taking over the account around here. So even before we actually identified this issue and implemented Max CBC's, we weren't getting there. We were also launching new campaigns across a bunch of different accounts. So there was some issues there, but even before we took over, we were way lower. Now we've just stably gotten closer and closer to hitting the same profit as we did last year or as they did last year, which is
[646s]
a good thing. Now, let's talk about implementation. Because just because you want to track your profit, it doesn't mean you have to change your entire account to be bidding for profit. Because remember, we had three different reasons to do profit tracking. One, our products have different margins. Number two was to align Google Ads KPIs with the business KPIs and three is to discover the highest profit volume at different row targets. Only one of these reasons number one require you to switch the system to actively bid for profit.
[676s]
And that's the first one. Like I said, if you're just trying to align Google Ads KPIs with business KPIs or just discover what ROS target drives the highest profit volume, then you can basically just set the profit conversion action to secondary and observe it instead. So let me show you what I mean. Here we have an account where we are tracking revenue as our main conversion action. And what I've done is I've created custom columns over here where we have the custom column for POAS and we have custom column for net profit.
[706s]
What these two do is that these custom columns will pull in the all we'll use all conversion value because if you have it set to secondary then it will not be included if you just say conversion value. So you have to set it to all conversion value and that way we then say minus cost and that way we get the net profit from here. We're basically trying to just find out okay if we're hitting this rorowas what is the pas we're hitting if we're hitting this revenue then what are we hitting in the in profit and here we have like these are third party brands and here's our
[736s]
private label and we can see that yes we are hitting higher rowas uh on our bests sellers but our our third party brand and our main are pretty similar however we are hitting a 10% higher profit with with our private label because we do have a slightly better margin but actually in this case it's not that big of a deal. So we can actually be just as aggressive with third party brands as we can with our private label brands. And again, this is just having that insight means we don't sit and worry about this all the time. The reason why we like our margins for for for third party brands
[766s]
here is worse than we have for private label. But we have a lot of products where people will click on the third party brand and they will buy a private label. So our actual profit is actually fine. So I can use this and say actually we don't have to be that aggressive and set a much higher ROS target for our third party brands as you would otherwise think. In this way we get the best of both worlds. We get insights to what campaigns drive the highest profit and we get the full efficiency of smart bidding. So there you have it. I hope you enjoyed this more nuanced look at
[796s]
profit-based bidding. I'm still a massive fan and I'll continuously say that if you have varying margin on products, then it's one of the best things you can do to optimize your ad account, but it's not perfect for everyone in e-commerce, especially if you run a lot of promotions, despite what all the cookie cutter agencies out there want you to think. With that being said, put a comment, put a like, subscribe if you like the videos. I'm there in the comments every single day. So, any questions, any topics you want us to cover, just post them there. If you're into practical PBC insights that you can actually help you, then subscribe. I share tips, breakdowns, and
[828s]
call out what's working and what's not.