[0s]
Performance Max, Dynamic Search Ads, and now AI Max. Google keeps giving us new tools, but they aren't telling us the whole story on how to use them. Now, you clicked this video because you wanted to know the unpopular truth about AI Max. So, here it is. There's a hidden flaw in AI Max that can silently break your entire campaign structure, and there's nothing new about that. We've heard that with dynamic search ads before, and if you don't know about it, I'll share it later. But while Google pushes it as a simple upgrade, just clicking on a button, enabling AI Max's core features
[30s]
can actually make your high performing campaigns start bidding on low performing generic keywords, basically wasting your money and limiting smart bidding. And that might be a problem for you. But, and this is important, this does not mean you should ignore AIAX completely. In fact, there's a very specific and slightly strange way to set it up that avoids this flaw while still preparing you for Google's AI future. So stick with me because by the end of this video, I'm going to show you exactly the setup that I'm now using and you'll be surprised to learn that it actually involves using the oldest campaign type
[61s]
on this list still. But let's start with a rundown of the three campaign types we'll cover today. So performance max, it targets all of Google's channels: search, shopping, display, video, Gmail, and discover. It offers virtually no keyword control and it functions as a standalone campaign type. Then there's dynamic search ads. It's the oldest of these campaign types. It targets a search the search network only. It does not use any generative AI.
[92s]
It creates ads by pulling headlines directly from your page titles and it matches search terms to your website content automatically to try to find out where should it post the ads. Now, this is a keywordless technology. So when we all go crazy when we hear the word keywordless technology, Google's been using it for years and it's also part of standard shopping. Jumping over to AIAX, it is the newest campaign type. Essentially, it's DSA on steroids. It will review landing pages to figure out what search terms or search queries
[123s]
should you show ads for. Just like with dynamic search ads, what it also does is that it will also analyze your existing keywords and ad copy to figure out what search terms also show for. So, it's not just the content on your website. It is also going to go in and figure out what keywords are do you already have and what do you write in your ads. Now, this functions as an add-on to your existing search campaigns and is not a standalone campaign type unlike dynamic search ads and performance max which are standalone campaign types. Now, it also features
[153s]
generative AI that writes ads from scratch based on your page content, based on your previous ad content, on user search behavior. Does that mean whatever Google people can search for get in the ads? That's a little bit vague at the moment, but I doubt that's what's going to be, but I'm a little bit worried. Now, considering Google's campaign types, let's talk a little bit about campaign overlap. So, it's important to understand how all these different campaigns interact with each other because just launching Pmax, dynamic searches, and having ARAX enabled in your existing search campaigns might be too much. These
[185s]
campaigns generally serve different purposes and shouldn't be run simultaneously. I have some different thoughts around that towards the end, but I try not to over complicate things here in the beginning. Now, let's start with Pmax because it's the simplest thing to talk about. If you're running a full PMAX campaign strategy for e-commerce, then you basically don't need anything else. AMAX functionality is already integrated into PMAX. So running a separate AMX campaign or a search campaign with AMX involved like that's what it is provides basically no
[216s]
additional benefit outside the fact that I generally recommend running standal standalone search campaigns instead of relying on pmax. But again if you're fully bought into the pmax setup then there is no need to also do an ax. You already have it access to the functionality inside of pmax. The same thing I'll say that if you're running a full PMAX setup and you want to run a dynamic search ads, then dynamic search ads is redundant. This is the same thing with AIAX because it's already included when you have Pmax with full assets.
[247s]
Now, if you're running a feed only PMAX strategy, then you do need a complimentary search strategy or you're not hitting anything. And that's really where the decision comes down to. Will you use a dynamic search ads campaign or will you use dedicated search campaigns with AIAX enabled which we'll cover next? I just wanted to clear this out completely. If you run a full PMAX campaign, then you don't need the AIAX or dynamic search ads. If you run search campaigns with AIAX enabled, then you don't need dynamic search ads per se. So
[277s]
that's it. So the real question becomes, should you run AIAX or dynamic search ads? Now there are some nuances to this but seeing that AI max will be able to uh en the way to enable AI ads and AI mode and AI overview on Google then I don't see how we can not run AI max or how we can not enable it. It therefore becomes more of a question of how do you navigate the problems that AIAX comes with because there are some problems
[307s]
then whether or not you should just run one or the other. Now, before we get into the problems with AMAX, I want to highlight an aspect of dynamic search ads that I'm going to miss a lot when we switch over to AMAX or when you switch over to AMAX. And this has to do with page feeds and URL and content exclusions. Even though it's not my go-to way to use dynamic search ads, then for high skew stores, page feeds and URL/content exclusions are key to keeping dynamic search ads efficient. Now, let me just show you here again a
[337s]
data feed is there here where we can go in. We have some data feeds that we've uploaded quite a while ago and we have the exact page URLs with the different custom labels that we want our dynamic search ads to target. And this way we're able to actually just create different ad groups that target different parts of the the site. And that way we're able to focus a little bit more because again for this particular ad group structure we wanted to split out the performance and there's certain
[368s]
categories on the site we actually don't want to target. Page feeds can be used to tailor where dynamic search ads should go. And this is especially useful when it's easier to tell dynamic search ads what pages do I want to advertise for instead of going well don't go here don't go here don't go here. An example of this is if you have a big big store, big e-commerce store, then categories or brand pages where 80% of the products are out of stock. We know that's not going to convert very well. Then we can have a page feed where we just include all the category pages with products that are in stock, for instance. Now, if
[399s]
we get over to the URL/content exclusions, there technically the opposite. This is where we say these are specifically things that we don't want to include. At the current point in time, there's no way for to do the same thing with AI Max when it comes to the content exclusion. There is URL exclusion, so that's a nice thing. But think of product pages where the text says it's out of stock or it's in pre-order or any other pages that we don't want to advertise for. Out of the box, like I said, we don't get the same exact control with AIAX, but there's some control I just want to just walk
[430s]
through. We have this thing called final URL expansion, and we can enable or disable it. If you disable URL expansion, then AIAX will not expand into other URLs than your ad or keyword URLs. This basically means that you take the dynamic search ads benefits out of AIAX as it will no longer cover URLs that you're not actively advertising for. And I have a tough time seeing how when you disable final URL expansion, what's the difference between running AMAX and having broad match in your
[460s]
campaign? I think it will be very, very similar. Then there's the feature called URL inclusion. You might think that this is the same as a page feed and it is relevant to it, but I just don't see the purpose for using URL inclusion in ecom. And the reason why I say ecom is because I haven't thought about it for other industries. But if you're not advertising for a URL, why would you add them to a IMAX? Uh let's say a subcategory for running shoes. If I don't have it somewhere in my campaign, why would I add them to a like to AMAX through URL inclusion? I just don't see
[491s]
it. Maybe there's some use case that I'm not thinking of. Please put it in the comments, but I just can't picture a campaign structure where where that's done. And then there's URL in exclusion. This is one I do think can be useful, especially excluding low performing URLs. We know that that's something we have to do in dynamic search ads. However, again, it doesn't appears to be super scalable as it currently doesn't use page feed. So that's just a problem that I have overall with the way the AMX is going to be because we we've learned this from dynamic search ads that having URL and content exclusions is really
[523s]
something that's important uh to remove any low performing pages. Now let's jump over to my biggest problem with AMAX because believe it or not it's not that we don't have page feeds. So it's going to create a mess with your campaign structure. It's the same reason why I never bought into having dynamic search ad ad groups enabled in my existing search campaigns. Dynamic search ads could quickly turn a campaign focused on a specific keyword category into any type of keyword it want. So if we look at it this way where we say we have three different types of keywords. Let's
[553s]
say we're targeting Nike running shoes, Nike marathon shoes, Nike crossfit shoes, and we want to just focus this campaign on Nike. then it there's no way for me to say that AIAX will not expand the campaign to show for CrossFit shoes or shoes for weightlifting or duffel bag for the for gym if those keywords can be found in the URLs that are in the campaign. And that's going to be a problem because a high ROS campaign like Nike if we sell Nike shoes will then allow AIAX to bid higher for lower performing search terms that we haven't
[584s]
even added to the campaign. Now, if this is just in general, then that might be a good thing. And overall, it's not a huge deal. But if you just take a very simple example, then for some e-commerce businesses, there are keyword categories we just don't want to bid for. Let's say in this particular case, I don't want to bid for CrossFit shoes or there's an entire bucket of keywords like category keywords, crossfit shoes, running shoes, etc. I don't want to bid for because historically they've never performed for me. Then by enabling AAX, I can't control for this. And this is where smart bidding starts becoming annoying
[615s]
because smart bidding will bid for everything. So it it's not I can't close it off. In my opinion, match types are already ruining ad group structure and now AIAX will ruin your campaign structure. The only solution is to do strict negative keywords to avoid cross cannibalization. But that's also super bad idea. Like I've covered in another video. It's a workaround that's just not going to hold up. It's not going to work and it's just going to ruin things. So it's going to be a necessary evil to work with with AI Max. And I have and we're just going to trust that AMAX and
[645s]
smart bidding can handle it. Another issue I have with AMAX is that is this text asset generation also known as this is when it writes the ads. Now there are s there are simply not enough controls built in that it's a good idea at this point in time. I can foresee a scenario where AIAX write an ad where it says save 48% because one product is on sale in a category and says save 48%. And that headline will then take all the spend because the CTR is the highest but conversion rates will be really low. So in general, I don't recommend turning on
[677s]
text asset generation. Basically allowing AI max to write headlines unless you don't touch that part at all. Optimizing your ads with new assets is a good thing and letting the AI do it if you never do it is better than not at all in general until you see it absolutely ruining something. So, what's the recommended setup? I have three different scenarios. Scenario number one, again, like I've said, if you use Pmax with a full asset setup, then you don't have to do anything different than
[707s]
what you're doing today. The second one is that if you're not using dynamic search ads already, then enable AI max, but do not enable final URL expansion. This allows the keyword as targeting to work. It allows you to get into the AI mode and AI overview, but you don't advertise for landing pages that you aren't already advertising for. You can then test enabling final URL expansion. Again, if you have a very very big site, then it's a net positive to use dynamic search as it more or less always have been, especially combined with smart bidding. So, I think it will be a net positive for you. However, if you are
[737s]
using dynamic search ads today, then it becomes a little bit more tricky. But I then in my case, I just enable AI mode. I don't use final URL expansion. And it's basically like turning on broad match in the campaign. I will leave the fallback part of finding URLs that I'm not currently advertising for and very very longtail keywords. I'll leave that as a dynamic search ads like I always have, but I'll take more of the broader search queries and keep in my current campaigns. Again, it's not a perfect
[767s]
scenario and I can't find a way to get around this ruining of the campaign structure. So, it's just going to be something we're going to have to live with. So now I know I started the video with saying that you that you have no use for dynamic search ads if you enable AMAX and that's technically still true but until Google have found a better way to show me that the text ad generation is really good and say I search for a pair of CrossFit shoes for plants fasciitis that have a little bit of arch support then it will be perfect that it can actually show that in the ad specifically for that that I can see a
[798s]
huge use case for but until it shows me that I'm not going to enable that part but I do foresee a future where enabling Air Max fully will actually provide quite substantial performance increases is just not quite there yet as of 2025 and I believe this goes into early 2026 as well. But having this setup where we enable AI max uh in the campaign but we don't take on final URL expansion. We do not add text ad generation. It allows us uh to use AI max to target more AI
[828s]
queries and it allows DSA to continue be this fallback campaign. So, let me know how you're using a IMAX and if you can see any issues with what I'm doing so far. AMAX is still new for a lot of us, so please let your thoughts be. If you're into practical PPC insights that you can actually help you, then subscribe. I share tips, breakdowns, and call out what's working and what's not. No fluff, just the stuff that you can use every single week.